Interviewer - and OK, I believe...that is started. So...let's find the first one. So...
Do you have problems with tiredness? The answer options are:
-better than usual
-no worse than usual
-worse than usual or
-much worse than usual

Participant - Is that just in general or today or lately or...?

Interviewer - Umm...

Participant - What is usual? Usual, usual to me? Usual to what I feel other people are? Usual to what it was before my health went?

Interviewer - This is how I know this is going to be a good interview. Let me, let me recheck the exact wording. In the last month specifically, compared to your "baseline".

Participant - And that's my baseline with current health conditions, not before current health conditions?

Interviewer - Yeah, so, yes. So your baseline with your current health compared to that in the last month, do you have problems with tiredness?

Participant - Yes. Yeah. Things have been a bit worse, so...

Interviewer - Worse or much worse?

Participant - Uhhhh...I don't know. I feel like my baseline has been slowly moving, like each month, my baseline has been a bit worse, a bit worse, so yeah, probably say a bit worse.

Interviewer - OK. So I'll say worse instead of much worse if you're...happy with that?

Participant - Yeah, yeah.

Interviewer - Do you need to rest more? Same options:
-better
-no worse
-worse or
-much worse

Participant - Much worse.

Interviewer - Do you feel sleepy or drowsy? Same options.

Participant - A bit worse.

Interviewer - So worse, instead of much worse?

Participant - Yeah, yeah.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK. Do you have problems starting things? Better, no worse, worse, much worse.

Participant - Worse.

Interviewer - Worse. Do you lack energy? Same options.

Participant - Worse.

Interviewer - Worse. Do you have less strength in your muscles?

Participant - Much worse.

Interviewer - Much worse. Do you feel weak?

Participant - Much worse.

Interviewer - Do you have difficulties concentrating?

Participant - Worse.

Interviewer - Do you make slips of the tongue when...I'm assuming that should be speaking. That says sleeping. Let me just check that a second.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - Yes, it should be speaking. Do you make slips of the tongue when speaking?

Participant - Not...not any more than usual. Not massively.

Interviewer - So, correct that typo, so that would be no worse than usual, yes?

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - OK. Do you find it more difficult to find the right word? Same options better, no worse, worse or much worse.

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse. And how is your memory? Better, no worse, worse, much worse.

Participant - Probably no worse. My baselines taken such a hit anyway.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Right, survey #2. By all means, if you need a pacing break at any point, just say and we can take 5 minutes.

Participant - OK

Interviewer - I appreciate that this is a err, a lot of questions.

Participant - It's not, not too bad.

Interviewer - Good. Good. So OK, this one has a scale of numbers one to seven where one is disagree and seven is agree. So... Question number one, my motivation is lower when I am fatigued.

Participant - Hmm. That's a tricky one. That's the problem with this is there, there is no normal. Sometimes my motivation can be massively low when I'm fatigued. Sometimes I'm still motivated and I just can't do anything. So I geuss.. base it...

Interviewer - Whatever you feel is most appropriate.

Participant - I reckon slightly, slightly, I can't remember which round it was. Would that be a 5 that I slightly agree?

Interviewer - So 4 would be bang in the middle, 5 would be slight, slightly towards the agree end with six, and seven being the other options for agree.

Participant - I slightly agree because motivation is hard when you're feeling fatigued.

Interviewer - OK, I'll note a 5 for that one. Exercise brings on my fatigue. 1 to 7.

Participant - Seven really.

Interviewer - That's a seven. I am easily fatigued one to seven.

Participant - Suppose a 7.

Interviewer - Fatigue interferes with my physical functioning.

Participant - That's a 7.

Interviewer - Fatigue causes frequent problems for me.

Participant - That is a 7.

Interviewer - My fatigue prevents sustained physical functioning.

Participant - That is a 7.

Interviewer - Fatigue interferes with carrying out certain duties and responsibilities.

Participant - That is a 7. This is depressing.

Interviewer - Please don't feel depressed by this at all. Fatigue is among my three most disabling symptoms.

Participant - Yeah, 7.

Interviewer - And fatigue interferes with my work, family or social life.

Participant - 7. As I'm on a work break trying to improve my health, barely see my friends.

Interviewer - Yeah. Like, like I said, it's-it's not necessarily the number of questions, the nature if you need a a pacing break or, or anything just say.

Participant - Yeah, it hit home. How badly it affects you, doesn't it?

Interviewer - Yes, and I find answering back-to-back questions about it can make it hit a bit, a bit more.

Participant - Yeah. It's OK, I have quite a positive mindset.

Interviewer - Good, good. We, we love to see it. Right. OK. So this one now has a scale of 0 to 3 and it's your chances of falling asleep or dozing or snoozing or whatever you'd like to call it. Zero is being, would never doze, 1 is a moderate chance of dozing, 2- Sorry 1 is a slight chance of dozing. 2 is a moderate chance of dozing and 3 is a high chance of dozing. So that's zero to three. OK?

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - OK, so when you are sitting and reading.

Participant - Hmm. Now reading is...like torture to me, so. Ummm. Depends if I'm reading something very interesting, definitely makes me tireder. Would it make me...doze? Let's go over 1.

Interviewer - Going with a 1. Watching television.

Participant - 1.

Interviewer - One again. Sitting inactive in a public place, for example, a theatre or a meeting.

Participant - 2.

Interviewer - 2.

Participant - It's exhausting.

Interviewer - As a passenger in a car for an hour without a break.

Participant - Zero because I get carsick.

Interviewer - 0. Lying down to rest in the afternoon.

Participant - Probably...two or three. And let's go with a 2, because I don't always fall asleep. I sometimes have problems sleeping.

Interviewer - Going with the 2. Sitting and talking to someone.

Participant - I mean, I'm not gonna fall asleep while I'm sitting talking to someone. Like, that's not really part of...what goes on for me? I know some people do have that, but I don't and so I'll go with a 0 on that one. It might wear me out and all, but I might need to sleep afterwards. Like after this I'm probably gonna go have a rest instead of doing some housework, but I'm not gonna fall asleep right now.

Interviewer - Yes, I'm very much in the same boat. Sitting quietly after lunch, brackets, when you've had no alcohol.

Participant - That is probably a three. That's that's that's... I get quite tired around that point in the day.

Interviewer - OK. And in a car, while stopped in traffic.

Participant - Again, I'm gonna say 0 because I get quite car sick.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much, right. So that...is our wonderful...surveys done. Apologies if some of the wording is confusing, but I do have to read it as is.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - Right, OK. So now it's. The big thing, it's the main interview itself. So are you happy to continue?

Participant - Yeah, yeah, it's all good.

Interviewer - OK, so for all of these take as much time as you need. Take...You don't have to be speaking for the entire thing. It's not as if you if you pause for a minute, I'm going to move on. I'll check with you after. I'll check with you that each question has been umm... that you've finished answering each question before moving on.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - OK. What chronic mobility condition or conditions do you have?

Participant - I have ME. And... I'm currently being investigated for MS. I have chronic pain which could be separate to ME or part of MS depending upon which one they decide I end up...with. And I've been told by doctors, I'd probably have long COVID too, because my ME got a hell of a lot worse after having COVID.

Interviewer - OK, for the sake of the transcription, could you use the full names for ME and MS please?

Participant - Ohh God, now you're challenging me aren't you? Umm...Myendo-something encephalomyelitis? (Myalgic encephalomyelitis)

Interviewer - OK. And MS?

Participant - That that was...What's that? That one? I know that one. Come on I know this one. Multiple sclerosis. That's the one. So I'm waiting for an MRI for that, which will probably give me a definitive yes or no.

Interviewer - Undoubtedly. Yes, just to make it undoubtedly uniden-identifiably a specific disease to make sure we don't get, get it mixed up with anything else. Sorry, for-for pushing you for that, but thank you very much anyway.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - Can you describe to me the symptoms of these conditions that you experience?

Participant - Well, the main one is fatigue and then the next main one is pain. I...get...lots of dizziness. I started stumbling more often. I've only fallen over once or twice, generally when I'm getting up, I'll fall back down into a chair again. Lots of brain fog, memory problems. I try not to think about them too often. I've had to...recently I wrote them all down, in case the doctor asked, but remembering them off the top of my head. Again, memory problems. I get, I don't know whether it's related or not, but I get random bruises on me. Just like for absolutely no reason, I'll just randomly have, like, a bruise on my leg or something. Not knocked into anything, just get them. I get stomach and chest pains, like squeezing. I occasionally get muscle spasms. Usually my legs or back I get like tingling...in..like extremities like, like when you get pins and needles and you've almost recovered from the pins and needles. That, that sort of thing. So it doesn't bother me, but, it just it's there. And I now started to get swollen occipital nerves, which has an actual name, but I can't remember it. And that is why I'm being tested for multiple sclerosis is because getting that like I guess I've had it at least twice, but maybe more times. Problems sleeping quite often. Can be, can be bad and erm, urgency going toilet. That's an annoying one. That's all I can think of off the top of my head. But I can check, I made a note because I thought I'd be bound to be asked when they started investigating that MS. If you'd like me to check if I've got anything else written down, I don't know.

Interviewer - Nope, that's that's no problem at all. If-if you feel that that is what you can provide at the moment, then that is more than enough. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities these conditions have prevented you from being able to do?

Participant - Work, for one. I'm on a work break to try and increase, try and improve my health. I started like...my work was full time, dropped to 4 hours, 15 minutes a day. That was fine until after COVID when I couldn't do that anymore like I was just getting worse and worse. Dropped it 3 hours, still couldn't do it. Dropped two hours. Still couldn't do it. So now I'm on a work plate to improve my health. I used to inline skate. That was that my main hobby and I had to completely give up that like. That's that's a real bum hole. That I had to do that because it meant that I had to find other things to do for fun. I recently had to stop swimming because even though... I had expensive goggles that are sort of laser, like I don't know, laser done around your eye so it's like perfectly formed to your eyes, it still started bruising my eyes like it, it was fine for a little while and I could carry on swimming, but even that bruises, bruises my face. So I had to stop swimming which is a good form of exercise and good for ME because it's like gentle exercise, as well, so that was that was a really helpful exercise that I've had to stop, which only started because of the ME. But I've now had to stop it because of it too. So. That sucks. What are we talking about? Exercises? Is it only exercise?

Interviewer - Activities, general activities. It's not restricted to specific types of activities.

Participant - OK so. OK, so I used to go to like gaming events and stuff. And I can't really do that now, it's just it's too long a day, too much travel. Just, yeah. Just can't, can't do that. Like travelling by train generally causes me pain because the chairs are quite, like the seats are quite uncomfortable. So I try and avoid that which then it also means I see my friends a lot less as my friends live all over the country. I don't really get to see them as I can't really do the travelling very easily. Because if I do something like that, it will just wipe me out for absolutely ages. It stops me doing a lot of sort of everyday things like I struggle to do...housework at home and...I play video games a lot of the time. I can't, can't do that because of my health. I just have to sit and sometimes I just listen to an audiobook because I can't really do much else. Other times I can gently get on with stuff. I used to play a lot of ukulele, but now I only play a little bit. I can still play a bit but...just it affects how much I do and like I want to go out busking and stuff and I can't really do that. And gigging and...all that's pretty much...had to stop because of it. Just effects like...everything like my dad sails and he invites me out to go on the boat and more than half the time, even though I'm just gonna be, like, laying there, I have to say no because I just haven't got the energy to to go and do it. Basically, affects almost everything that I want to do.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - Like, I started jogging. And I've had to stop...stop that I...don't jog anymore. I've now, because I can't swim, I've got an indoor bike...and...at-at one point that was going pretty well, but then since the end of March, I've barely been able to do it. I've been trying to do it like...once, for the last month I've been trying to do it like once or twice a week. And that has been like killing me. It basically it...wears me out to the point that I haven't been able to do much else. And even that, like I'd really like to be doing that, like at least three times a week. So...yeah, it just...stops me doing. It stops me doing all sorts of different exercises like I've tried lots of different types of exercise to like....do graded exercises to ease myself in and...it stops me from doing them a lot of the time. Like I don't know if you want the details of the different types of exercises that I do do when I can or whether you want that in a different time. Different question or...just leave it.

Interviewer - As a as a basic summary, I think specific examples would be too much because we are looking at specifically with the device and how-how you would use the device. But I think you've-you've given a lot. So thank you very much. Yeah, I think that gives a very, very good picture of how ubiquitous the effect is.

Participant - Hmm.

Interviewer - If-if you were happy with the finishing the response to that question you, you OK to move on?

Participant - I'd like to add one more thing. I used to like making cakes and now I just don't really have the energy to do that. It's too...too much work, so it makes you feel bad like a birthday times like instead of making my mom or my husband like a really nice cake...I'm just like happy birthday...here's...no cake.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Anything else you'd like to add?

Participant - No, that's all good.

Interviewer - OK. When is the earliest instance you can recall of your condition inhibiting your mobility?

Participant - When you say my "mobility", do you mean like I'm too exhausted to do something that involves moving?

Interviewer - Your ability to do something because obviously... let's-let's get the dictionary definition up. Because that that will remove my-my brain fog influence. Yeah. So your ability to be mobile to-to do something. Not necessarily to-to do something like running or do something in a different location, but your ability to...get up and do something, or even mentally...get up and do something, mentally get started.

Participant - Like get up and do anything or do something that I wanted to do, but I now can't.

Interviewer - So any, any activity that has been inhibited by by your condition, so it can be anything from cooking. "Ohh I cooked two hours later because I had an aggressive onset and had to had to rest for two hours" or "My-my sleeping pattern was awful and I was late, started being late for work" or-or any anything like that any...instance where your condition's affected your ability to...do.

Participant - Probably about 2017. Is that right?

Interviewer - OK, what...what was...what was the instance sorry? Do you do you have a specific example in mind or is it just a...general timeframe?

Participant - Well, I can just think like...at that time, I was living in Thailand working. And...I'd like to do my work. And quite often I'd work late. And I'll go home and I'll be too tired to then go and do anything? Like you know it, it's a working holiday like...want to go out and do stuff in the evenings and a lot of the time I was just too tired to. I just have, like, ridiculously early nights.

Interviewer - OK. Is there anything you'd like to add to that, that example or, or that time frame or?

Participant - No, I think that's probably it.

Interviewer - OK. Perfect. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of extended exhaustion after an activity?

Participant - What? Like how long I'm exhausted for?

Interviewer - So the unusually long recovery time where an example...or several examples as you see fit of...an activity causing that extended exhaustion and...to speak colloquially, flooring you for an extended time.

Participant - OK, quite often it's more of a buildup rather than a single activity because, like I've learned to pace myself so... Yes, it is usually a build up of activities... that will then do it, if that makes sense. So would you still like examples of that or?

Interviewer - If you don't feel that there is a particular activity that you can give in as an example, then no. By all means just say that it's not a, a specific thing and it's-it's that build up exclusively.

Participant - No, I wouldn't say that. So it's just the build up is a lot worse than specific single things because they do try and...pace myself, and then just all of a sudden...I'll get hit. And...so at the moment really the one is the cycling that will that will hit me...hit me harder than I like. So I've just been able to start the cycling again 5 weeks ago and the first time I did it, it basically knocked me out for a week.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - That was, I can't remember how long the cycle was. I think it's about half an hour and a not very hard cycle because I literally just couldn't do it. And yeah, that knocked me out for like a week. And at the moment the cycles generally...it-it can vary, but it can knock me out for like 2 days to a week still. I do simracing like with...steering wheel and pedals and all that and...I've got what's called a direct drive wheelbase so you get quite a lot of force through the wheel, similar to what real life drivers get through their hands, at least in modern cars, with all the power steering and stuff. And doing that, like doing a whole race...that's like nearly two hours long and can knock me out for...for quite a while. That can, that can knock me out for sort of up to a week as well. Other than those two things...I...always make sure I stick with my limits so I'm not knocked out for too long with any individual thing.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. Thank you very much. I can't wait to have to explain in my thesis what a direct drive wheel is...that's gonna be very interesting. Moving on to question 6, can you give me examples of brain fog inhibiting specific activities? Of course, if you, if you are struggling to recall as a result of brain fog, by all means give this interview as an example. If that's all that that comes to mind.

Participant - Yeah. Yeah, that's-that's quite a tough one cooking. When, when it, brain fog really inhibits cooking. Cause I'm like ohh I suddenly can't remember what ingredient I meant to use or how much 'cos I'm someone that...generally cooks by feel.

Interviewer - Mmm.

Participant - So...when I have recipes, they're generally just in my head...and not really written down anywhere and like or "I'll be like ohh here's this recipe online. I'm not gonna do all that, I'm gonna change this, this, this, this, this." And then I'll forget what I've changed, so I can't read like I'll make something really delicious. And then I can't recreate it because I've forgotten what I did. That's that's probably the one that it really affects the most. The most annoying one is we're gonna come back to...it's in racing again, I'm afraid. And you get brainfog like, because it's....it's so vital to be breaking in the exact place like to...if you brake half a second late, you're in a wall. On on, on the game, and that ruins your game and you might have practised for a week before the race just for one little bit of brain fog where you suddenly forget "Where do I break for this corner?", brake half a second late and it ruins the whole race. That's...that's quite an annoying one. And can can happen quite regularly. I get it when playing ukelele I'll suddenly forget...words to a song. Or like the chord sequence of a song, just suddenly it will...it will be gone in my head. Which can be a bit frustrating, like sometimes even...in the same song. I'll-I'll play like I'll play the chorus once and then the next time coming round to play the chorus...I can't remember the chorus. Even though I just played it like a minute ago. And then...again, going back to video games. I was early in the year, I was really enjoying a game called Rise of the Ronin...which is an action game, and even after playing it for nearly 100 hours, I would often just press the wrong button...because I get like a bit of rain fog and I couldn't remember what button...did what? And that that's after like 80 odd hours of play like...I should be remembering what button does what at that point, not forgetting it, and I-I still do. Yeah. So is that some...some examples?

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Is that everything you'd like to add for that, that question?

Participant - Generally, by the time I've finished talking, I've forgotten what the question was so I can't add anymore, but there's a good example of brain fog there.

Interviewer - Would you like a reminder or would you simply like to give that as an example and move on?

Participant - I would give that as an example and move on.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of disruptions to your sleep schedule making your other symptoms worse?

Participant - Sometimes I just can't sleep. Like...I'm dead tired, I'm so tired, I can't even really open my eyes without getting like really bad headaches, which is something I've got to mention in the symptoms is and the unfocused in of my eyes is something I've got to mention in my symptoms as well. But when I'm quite fatigued I'll get that like it's so hard to concentrate, to focus my eyes it gives me a headache. So I have to just sit there with like double vision or something or with my eyes closed because yeah, I have to...actually think to make them focus and that has been checked, it's not an eye alignment issue so it is to do with the ME or whatever. And so I can be so tired, so fatigued, I should say that... I can't even focus my eyes, yet I can't get to sleep. And then I won't get to sleep till like 4 in the morning. And then my body is like "It's 7:00 or 6:00. It's time to get up now" And like no. No body. No. So there's that one. Then there's also the...exact opposite, which is sometimes I'll get to sleep nicely, wake up at 3:00 in the morning and that's it. My body is like, "Nope, you're awake now. Get on with your day" And...at the same time, it's saying, but actually I'm not going to let you get on with your day because I'm not gonna let you do anything at all because you haven't got enough sleep. So...it's a bit of a catch 22, really. When...when I've had a bad night's sleep, just the, the fatigue, the fatigue is real. The fatigue, it's-it's bad when you've had a bad night's sleep, like just doing things is just so much more effort, which then means that you run out of energy a lot quicker like to...use the spoons example. Which I guess I should probably...explain. I don't know. I should explain the spoons example?

Interviewer - I think I can reference a previous paper on that. You don't need to explain it yourself, just to not give you additional requirements.

Participant - When, when, when you don't have sleep like I'll probably say you have about half as many spoons as normal.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Is that everything on, on that question?

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - OK. The full symptoms you've forgotten and then remembered later. I can, I can add them in and, and again use that as a...

Participant - Brain fog...

Interviewer - Brain fog example.

Participant - You have a lot of them by the end from different people.

Interviewer - Yes. Yeah, I'll probably have some myself, to be honest. Yeah, right. Question 8: What device or application do you currently use for these conditions? It can be more than one.

Participant - So...by device application I assume you mean something that's monitoring what movement and exercise I'm doing, not what I use to do that.

Interviewer - Anything. That you...you use to monitor your condition that then changes your behaviour around your symptoms. So it can be a Fitbit or it can be an app on your phone.

Participant - OK, well. I-I use I...did it say on the back which model it is I don't know. I was...Xiaomi my watch, my band rather whatever. I've been using them since the number 2. And we're now like number 8, 9, I don't know, whatever. So I've been using one of them...pretty much since the get go and it's related app that comes with it. I've used a bit of Strava. I use Zwift, Zwift sort of does a load of monitoring stuff and I look at...I look at that. And I have used in the past the... Meta Quest used to...monitor your movement a lot more than it does now. And I used to use that a little bit. And I use...I don't know whether it will count or not, but I use ring fit on Switch and that sort of that monitors...what you're doing, how much you've done, and sometimes I'll look at...look at that. And...

Interviewer - If memory serves, ring fit gives a calorific value and the like as well, doesn't it?

Participant - Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Interviewer - OK. Have you...so obviously you mentioned previous versions of your, your... wristband.

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - Have you used any other previous tools other than the ring fit and the Meta?

Participant - Ah...

Interviewer - That you can remember, obviously.

Participant - Ohh yeah, there was something when I was swimming. I can't remember what it's called, though it was like some swimming band....that measured how much swimming you'd done, and it was actually it was really quite good. But I can't remember what it was called and it was the gym that I was at at the time, basically you could get this band and it, it measures all your swimming.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. I said I'd have brain fog. I had a thought halfway, I had a thought to chase up on halfway through that question. I've completely forgotten it. We'll come back to it if I remember it. How do you use your current device applications?

Participant - Really I just record what I'm doing and I look back a bit. The handiest thing for me is the heart rate and the my band has, has two things that I quite like. One is well, it's sort of two and a half. One is it has a training load. So it's like how hard you're working yourself. And then it has...like recovery time. And the recovery times quite, quite good because it's like right now from a cycle I did a few days ago, it's still saying I have 31 hours to recover. And I'm like...that's, that's quite....quite good, because you'll be like, I know...don't, don't do anything that pushes myself...in that time, because otherwise I'm going to kill myself. Not literally, but you know I will crash. And the other one, it used to have something called Personal Activity Index, which was really good. It-it it's little jargon was like ohh, it's like from the World Health Organisation, blah blah blah. You should be doing like, so much exercise, and if we base it on like what we've learned from all your data and yada yada yada. So it's personal to you and that should be about 100...to be nice and fit and healthy. But now they've replaced it with something called Vitality, which makes absolutely zero sense to me, and it seems to be the same thing, but it doesn't really go up...much, so I don't, I don't really know what's going on with that. I'm a bit confused. So that's not so helpful.

Interviewer - Right. OK.

Participant - And what, what? What was the question again, I don't know whether anything else that I use would be, was it specific to the my band?

Interviewer - No, no, specific to any devices that you currently use, or if you want to chip in with devices that you have previously used and how they're different by all means, feel free to do that.

Participant - So how, how what was the...?

Interviewer - So how, how you use the devices and applications in relation to your conditions. So for example the, the recovery time.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - So, so using that function to to...know when you have recovered as a result of the extended recovery time because of your fatigue.

Participant - Yeah. So the...the Meta Quest had something called move minutes. And basically once I've hit like. 30 move minutes or something or like 60. I'd be like, "Right? That's a good time to stop." Even if I'm like, I feel like I could keep going. I'm like, "No, let's, let's stop now before it becomes too much." So that was quite handy when it had the movement. It doesn't have that anymore. So it's kind of lost its...it's handiness for my health. It's literally just...for some more fun exercise now rather than anything else. Umm. I think that's really it for how things help me...like monitor stuff to do with my health condition. The zwift is really just...it monitors your power output and stuff, and I'm like I would like to...beat that or not beat that or whatever, like it..it helps...it helps in a way...zwift, I suppose, because it's monitoring your, how many watts of power you're outputting on the bike. So I can be like, well, I'm exhausted today, so I'm gonna make sure I. don't go above 90 or 100 or something or I'll be like I'm really feeling it today I'm gonna try and keep my average at 120. I don't know if that's an example that relates or not, but...is one that I...I will use to try and make sure that I push myself as hard as I can without...doing too much.

Interviewer - Yep.

Participant - And I think that's about it.

Interviewer - OK. Thanks. Sorry, I had a-a small interruption there. Yes, that's absolutely an example, that is relevant. That's a very good example. Thanks very much. Is there anything else you'd like to-to describe in the-the methods that you use with these, these devices.

Participant - Uhhh...I don't think so.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Question 10, when do you use the device or application? So for example you've got devices specific to certain activities like your, your zwift for your cycling. Do you have specific times for specific applications when... When do you use them? When do you not use them?

Participant - I use them when I can. I don't use them when I can't.

Interviewer - Right, OK. Is there any time that you ignore their, their data, their output?

Participant - I ignore it?

Interviewer - So for, for example with, when you were using you a zwift and you've got... presumably you've got your arm wristband on at the same time?

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - With that on, do you...ignore the wristband over the swift or...?

Participant - No, I-I, I-I make them both run and like sometimes I'll just look at my, my watch and be like ohh yeah my watch like...the other day I was cycling and for the normally my heart rates would...have...quite quickly, get up to about 165-170. And it was sitting at 161 for a while, so I was like "Hmm, let's look at my watch. Ohh. It's also at 161. OK, all good." So I, I used them in harmony, really, those two. It's nice to have...for the heart rate, it's nice to have the two, two things going on just in case like something does seem a bit weird I can look at the other one and be like "Ohh no they're, they're in complete agreement." So no, I wouldn't ignore one over the other. In general, I prefer to try and do things in the morning, before I'm sort of worn out. But it really, it really depends it-it just...it's so variable that...I just...it makes it hard to plan. When I'm when I'm doing really well...like, around March I was doing, I was doing really well. And what I would do is I would generally do some exercise on my meta quest in the morning. And then I'd have a rest, and then I'd do a bit of housework and stuff. And then I'd have a rest. And then like 3 times a week, I then cycle in the afternoon. And that, that was working really well for me until it wasn't. And I haven't been able to get back to that. So at the moment, it really is just I will exercise when I can.

Interviewer - OK so...question, question 10 is when do you use it and question 11 is how frequently. To summarise the two, it sounds a lot like you are using...your devices as frequently as you can with an activity that is relevant to them. Would that be a good summary?

Participant - Yeah, pretty much.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - Yeah, just I-I-I'm trying as hard as possible to get nice and fit so. Because the better I am, the less the fatigue affects me, because it's like my body can do more with less.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - So I'm literally just trying as hard as I can to get as fit as possible, and I do as much as I can, when I can. Without trying to do too much.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. Thank you very much. Yeah, I-I appreciate those two questions...were a little bit strange for you, a specific example. So sorry for any confusion that caused. Can you, for question 12, can you give me examples of activities that caused your decision to start using devices or applications?
…
So was there a particular activity and the consequences of that made you think I should start keeping track of this sort of thing?

Participant - No, I just thought was interesting.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of times that your devices alerted you to over exertion?

Participant - I suppose my watch...it-it doesn't go out of its way to do it, but if I...go into my training status. If I have done too much, it will say, it will tell me in the training mode that I have been doing too much but it doesn't go...it doesn't alert me to that, I'd have to go look that up myself.

Interviewer - Ahh OK. OK. That's interesting. Thank you very much. I will probably circle back to that later if that's OK?

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - Can you give me examples of activities you started after using the device? Or devices.

Participant - Because of them or just things I started anyway, since my health has...got worse or...?

Interviewer - Whatever you feel is relevant. If-if you started an activity, not because you were dev- using the devices, but it happens to be after you use the devices, and you were using the devices with that activity anyway, then by all means provide that example.

Participant - OK, well. Since my health has deteriorated, I've sort of... I've always used my, my, my band, whenever I do any exercise, just to monitor it. And I have done lots of different types. So I started swimming. I used again the...I think swim tag. It's called swim tag. I used a swim tag to monitor my swimming. Because the my band isn't very accurate for swimming. So the swim tag was accurate, so I just used that instead. I have used my band to monitor inline skating. Like I said, I can't inline skate anymore, I can't go to skate parks and do tricks I have, over the last seven years, I haven't for about two years now, but I have been able to just skate like, go for a skate round an area with different wheels and it's totally different experience and not as good, but it's exercise and it's good exercise and so...at one point, about five years ago, I was doing that quite regularly. I can't now, but I would like to do it at least occasionally again, so I monitor with that. I actually took up jogging because...I couldn't inline skate anymore and despite having...ME, I managed to build, build up to being able to jog 10K. And I used my watch monitoring all of that, like always trying to beat my times and stuff and obviously knowing how far I've...jogged, because otherwise I wouldn't know what's 5K, what's 10K? So that was that was extremely useful and really helped me with....with building that up. And getting, getting to that 10K...mark. I would love to be able to jog again, but at the moment I really can't. And if I do again, I would use my watch again to help me monitor that. I use it...sometimes when I play ukulele because I do play quite vigorously. I can be like, I'll play, quite, quite some lively ska punk and punk on the ukulele. So I'm moving around quite a lot and I'm like, well, that's exercise. So I'm monitoring on my watch. With cycling on zwift, zwift monitors it and my watch monitors it. I will tell my watch I'm doing some exercise when I do exercise on the meta quest, I'll generally do...different rhythm games so that I'm moving around quite a bit. With ring fit on the Nintendo Switch that obviously monitors what I'm doing and again tell my watch my my band to monitor that. And sometimes when I'm simracing, I'll tell my tell my my band to monitor that as well, because obviously it does increase your, your heart rate and you're moving around quite a lot and it can be, be quite hard work. Yeah. So that's-that's the kind of things that I would... monitor.

Interviewer - OK, um, I'm aware we have overrun. There are five questions left and I'm aware that some of these questions have...things that you've talked about already, if you would like to not entirely repeat yourself, just refer to what you've said already, and-and I can do some juggling if you'd like, because obviously again an hour is quite a long time, so I don't want to cause any overexertion on your part.

Participant - It's all good, it, it's not a big deal like I wanted to do a lot of hoovering and stuff today and housework, as I haven't been out the last two days, but if I don't, it's not a big deal if I do it...tomorrow instead, like...

Interviewer - Mm-hmm.

Participant - It-it's really no big deal for me, so I'll try and save you the juggling around.

Interviewer - Thank you very much. Right question 16, can you give me examples of activities you might have started... Ohh sorry. Ohh no sorry, 6 questions left. Brain fog, lovely. Can you give me examples of regular activities you stopped participating in as a result of using the device or application. So activities where you realised you were over exerting yourself and you stopped as a result?

Participant - Work for one. I'm hoping to go back to that, but it's been a year and my health...has increased and decreased and increased and decreased and decreased some more and decreased some more. So I'm basically back at where I was then, so not sure if I'll go back to that. The big one for me is in line skating like skate parks and stuff. I used to do that at least twice a week and...just can't now so... That one. That's the one that really, really affects me and gets to me. Jogging so...I actually started jogging because of...not being able to skate. And now I can't jog either. Again, I'm hoping that I can get fit enough that I can start that again, but we will see. Swimming as well. Again, I started swimming because I couldn't skate and now I can't swim anymore. And that's because....of the bruising that I get, get bruising around my face wearing goggles. Even with expensive goggles that are like crafted to my face, I still get bruising on my face. I can't do that. Is it ones that I've stopped completely or ones that I don't do as much anymore?

Interviewer - I'm happy to have either.

Participant - OK. Well, it's pretty much every activity I do, I can't do as much as I used to, even, even comparing it to other times since I've had ME like... I started simracing like...3 years ago, 2 1/2 years ago and the first year of that, I did absolutely loads and then I just haven't been able to do as much as that since. It's like my health is, the ME has been affecting me a lot more and I haven't been able to do as much, and that's, that's since having COVID one time like...that's where it really dropped off at the same point. That's where the work dropped off from 4 hours 15 to now., not not being able to. Yeah, that like year and a half well, no two and... 1/2 years. I don't know something like that. I might be getting my years mixed up.

Interviewer - No problem.

Participant - Yeah, like I used to play fighting games like video games with...arcade stick and stuff and that need really, really fast reactions. And I used to like go to tournaments and play and stuff and I can't... I can't do that anymore. My reactions are, are gone. So I don't even really play fighting games anymore cause...not be able to react quickly enough makes them not so much fun. So yeah, don't, don't really play them anymore. Even though I have like an arcade machine.

Interviewer - OK, that's cool.

Participant - I don't really use because as I say, my reactions aren't really there. Trying to get my phone up. It's gonna...it's gonna be like that now. Yeah, I used to go for bike rides like outdoors as well, and haven't been doing that, but maybe that's, I don't know. I just started doing it a lot less, because my health. Ohh and I said before about making cakes.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - I used to, used to make cakes regularly and just like spend more time cooking and I-I can't do that now, so it's generally very easy meals. Tonight's just gonna be pasta where I throw, throw everything in one saucepan and be like cook. Whereas I'm gluten free and my husband isn't. So before to save money, I'll be like I do it in two lots. Here's non gluten free, my gluten free because my gluten free pasta cost like 1500 times as much.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - Yeah, just throw it, throw it all in one pot now, because effort. And yeah, no, no more making cakes. Occasionally, I'll make a cake in a mug, for my husband, rather than baking a proper cake, cause that takes like 5 minutes, if that. But it's not the same as making a proper cake. I think...that's, suppose that's.. ohh I play ukelele a lot less now. Just because I don't have the energy to because when I play I do play in quite a high energy way. So while it's not, not a sort of high energy as doing...most forms of exercise, it's still high energy enough that it is like doing exercise and because of that I don't really play very often anymore. I think that will probably do.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you...this is the last example...question. So again, brain fog, if I'm remembering rightly, that's regular activities you've stopped, correct?

Participant - Yes, stopped or do a lot less.

Interviewer - OK, so there's two example questions left. Can you give me examples of activities you might have started were you not using the device or app?

Participant - I might have started...were I not using the device or app?

Interviewer - So activities that you would have given a go if you didn't have the, the information or the, the habitual analysis of your applications. If there's none by all means just say there's none.

Participant - No, no, there's, there's nothing that my app stops me from trying. There's stuff my health has stopped me from trying, but not my app.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - Ohh I've got another one for things that I can't really do so much anymore. I ski and I go skiing with my parents like...most years and for quite a few years like I just wasn't able to go at all. And then I just started going again anyway, and rather than skiing all day every day, I will ski in the morning only. A lot less vigorously. Sort of...I try and do it every other day, but I quite often can't do, even can do that much. So that that's a big and even in doing it like it's a big change, I used to be like down with the double blacks and everything. And now it's like let's do some just intermediate runs cause that's easier on me. And then it will wipe me out for like a month afterwards even just doing that. Or two months even.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Right. The last example question, can you give me examples of events that demonstrate your decision to choose this device, so things that confirm in your mind that using the device is the correct thing to do?

Participant - It's cheap. My watch anyway, my watch is cheap. The the zwift is good because it's in my house and it's nice and convenient to use. Same with the Meta quest and...um...ring fit, it's all, it's all convenient. I'd say the convenience is really the bigger, the bigger thing it's like if I suddenly feel I do have the energy to do it, it's right there and like virtually in my hands within 30 seconds or like sitting on the bike within like a minute after getting changed and stuff so yes, really the convenience...more than anything else?

Interviewer - OK. Thank you. Right. Three questions left. These are more speculative. What physical form would your ideal device or application take? Would it be an application? Would it be a wristband like the one that you currently use? Or would it be several things?

Participant - Yeah, I suppose, like a wristband like I currently use, it's a good size. Like there's got a, got a good bright screen. So that's, that's handy. Tells the time there's like notifications from my phone. Anyway and then it links to an app on my phone for more information. I'd love more information actually on the thing itself, but it gives quite a lot like the umm, like I said there's my...training... like thing, it's in optimal at the moment and there's my recovery time all on there. So it's really it's nice and simple to...to check that and I like that and there's my vitality score. Oops, no. There's my vitality score. So yeah, that, that's all on there and I can just, a few flicks of my finger and I can look at it all and all I have to do is put my, put my wrist up and there's my heart rate. So that's, that's really convenient. It'd be cool to, like, have a bit more like, of the history on here, which it actually does have. OK, no, no it's got good, good, good history on here. I like that. So it's even got like my [inaudible] zone. So there's the cycle I did the other day that half killed me. I was like, laying on the floor for about an hour afterwards, dead. Like all the different heart rate zones and...it tells me that I was overreaching. That was, that was the training effect on that workout. This is actually something that I haven't noticed. This is new on this watch. Umm... That it has that, that it says that that, that was overreaching and was a bit too much that, that one, which it was. But I was doing a race on zwift and I wanted to do the best I possibly could.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - So that, that's probably a bad thing about with it, it, it sometimes pushes me too hard. But actually that, that's really quite good. So it has like all my average heart rate, max heart rate training, load recovery time, how much vitality it adds, my heart rate zones, the training effect, the fact that it's overreaching and it has like a recovery thing. All, all on my wrist band, which is pretty damn convenient just to all be there. Yeah, linking to a phone is obviously good as well. And...probably something that would be handy is...an alert being like whoa, hold on a minute. You're doing a bit too much right now rather than like. I've only just seen that it's told me that that exercise I did like a few days ago, that I've now been like the last two days...I've literally just been stuck on the sofa because of...well, that that was overreaching myself and it...just right now that I've found out that my watch has told me that's overreaching myself. Even though it's like got my training load as absolutely fine perfectly in the middle. So yeah, an, an alert for that would probably be, be good you, you've hit what really should be your limit based on the data that we've got, that we've accumulated for you because it does all accumulate like your data. That would be that would be very good.

Interviewer - OK so. The next question, what functions would you remove? What's unnecessary or obstructive?

Participant - I don't know. Everyone's different like...

Interviewer - For, for a, a device tailored to you specifically, not... so if there's something that you can see would be useful for others, but you personally don't want. By all means feel, feel able to say that, but specify as such.

Participant - I mean on my one like there's nothing really that I'd be like...get rid of... I'm, I'm looking right now. It has something called focus. I'm like, what the hell is that? Is like set your focus time 25 minutes alright. OK, so go. Do not disturb is on during the session. Oh OK, that's actually quite handy. Now I would leave that so that you have a do not disturb. You can be like I want to set up like 20 minutes of do not disturb. Yeah, that's, that's quite handy. I, I guess nothing like...everything has its use...on my, on my one like. Yeah, everything has its...its use.

Interviewer - OK. And you've touched on this already, but what functions would you add? If it's something you've already talked about, again, feel free to just mention it and I can look back and that's fine.

Participant - Yeah, I'd add something that tells you when you're doing too much for you. So obviously that would...take quite a while for the device to get enough data to know that. But, it's like, my watch tells me that the last cycle I did I was overreaching. And while I knew I was pushing myself hard. I was hoping that I wasn't overreaching. I kind of vaguely, vaguely knew I did because I was pushing myself as hard as I possibly could because I wanted to hit 120 Watt average over a race. But it would have been good for my watch to be like beep-beep-beep beep-beep-beep you're doing too much ease off of it. Or, also like heart rates, like I know from the cycling, I'll start hyperventilating if I hit 175 beats per minute. For more than like a minute, I'll start hyperventilating. And I've learned that, so I'll watch my heart rate really carefully and be like, right, I'm up to like, 173. Let's, let's back it down a bit to something I'm a bit more comfortable with that's still killing me, but you know, killing me less.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - And I say killing me as in like wearing me out a lot rather than physically killing me.

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - Yeah. So a, a sort of alert for that would be quite, quite cool. Like if you could put in what you think your max heart rate is like, what you're comfortable going up to... So for instance, I could put in like I'm OK, But when I hit 175, that's... bad... times happen. So then my watch would be like "Ohh you're 170. This is OK, but don't push it too much more. Oh, you're like 174 or something. Time to back off."

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - That would be, that would be quite a good feature. Like if it if it did that based on heart rate as well as the one where it'd be like, "OK, you've been pushing yourself a long time. You're now overreaching in this particular exercise. Please, like back off, or go into your cool down now. Otherwise you're going to be doing yourself some damage." Maybe you're not doing yourself some damage, but for someone with ME it kind of is because it's like you're overdoing it and then you're gonna be stuck in bed all day the next day. So that sort of warning coming up would be very, very useful. Like the two, they're kind of related, but not. One's very in the moment and one's very taking the exercise as a whole. I think those two would be good as well as the recovery time, it gives me my recovery time, but I need to go look at that. I think it'd be very good if it sort of made it really obvious. It's like "Congratulations on doing this exercise. You did great. Here's your average heart rate. Really make it important and big. Be like by the way, this is how long we think you need to recover before doing any other exercise" Rather than it, it's there but I have to go look at it. Like that, that would be...that'd be a good one. I don't know what else. Maybe if it could like...analyse all my data to workout patterns of like when I do best.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - Like if it can like slowly analyse, it's like "Ohh after like, in this month. You did like 5 workouts at 7:00 in the morning. Your workouts at 7:00 in the morning actually lasted an hour, and you were at a higher heart rate than your exercises that you did at like 6:00 in the evening where you didn't manage to do as well. Therefore, it looks like you do better exercise at 7:00 in the morning." If it can analyse stuff like that, cause that's something that I just do exercise when I feel like I can do it. But if something was actually analysing...when I do better, that would be quite cool. I don't know how it would do that. But I'm sure some, some smart person somewhere could work out that so that it could then recommend you...what times do you exercise?

Interviewer - Hello, I'm back. Sorry about that. So that you can see what time... What time..? What? Sorry, that's about when you cut off.

Participant - Ohh so you can see like what time is best for you to exercise.

Interviewer - Like OK. OK. Thank you very much.

Participant - That that would be handy, yeah.

Interviewer - So to summarise. Making features that it already has more prominent and accessible would be, would be a big thing, like the overreaching and, and custom alerts.

Participant - Yeah, yeah, really. The overreach will be to tell you whilst you're doing it rather than you afterwards. And yeah, alerts to try and make sure you don't overreach.

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - Like if I...take up jogging again. I'm not going to be looking at my heart rate religiously like I am on zwift making sure I'm not hitting 175. So an alert would then become extremely handy. Like for any outdoor exercise, I'm not going to be looking at my heart rate, I'll look at it afterwards. So yeah, it become quite, quite a very handy feature then.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. Thank you very much. Is there anything else you'd like to add to any of the, the questions we've already had?

Participant - Not that I can think of, I just apologise for going on and on and rambling.

Interviewer - No, no, no problem at all. More data is, is wonderful as much as... as much as what is it? This is longer than predicted and...and I might get told off for it. This is still good. This is still good. This is...

Participant - Even if it's, if it's less than three times longer than predicted, you're, you'r,e you've done good.

Interviewer - Yeah, yeah, my attitude exactly. OK. So if there's nothing else to add, I'm going to stop the recording if that's all good?

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - OK.