Interviewer - And OK, recording 2 has started. So this is the main body of the interview. Feel free to e-mail me or tell me about anything halfway through if you forget something or want to come back to it. Obviously memory issues...are a very understandable part of the study-

Participant - Yes!

Interviewer - -so there's, there's absolutely no pressure to recall things at specific times.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So question one, what chronic mobility conditions do you have?

Participant - So I've been diagnosed with chronic fatigue syndrome. Um...I think that's the only mobility related one, but my-my asthma kind of, kicks off with it, if that makes sense. They feed each other.

Interviewer - OK, you don't need official diagnosis, so if there's anything you self diagnosed with, feel free to say it as well.

Participant - Yeah, I don't. Everything else is a big question mark. There's definitely something else going on, but I don't know what it is.

Interviewer - OK, question two. Can you describe to me the symptoms of these conditions that you experience?

Participant - Yeah. So the...the main one that I was experiencing was the joint pain because I was like, living outside of the realm of fatigue. But once I've been, like, diagnosed and I'm living more within the realm of fatigue, the joint pain is considerably less but still always there.
But like fatigue is like, always there and...like it really effects my brain. Like the the brain will be the first thing to go, which then brings like memory issues, brain fog, um, and effects my lungs as well which can make me throw up, which isn't a fun one.
Um, errrr.
And oh, and like muscle weak, I have very, very weak joints. Ummm, I think-. Oh, I start-. Yeah. I think I struggle with like, standing and sitting, but I don't know if that's a given with fatigue. Not saying you're sitting up, though. Yeah. And walking was what I meant instead of saying I do struggle with sitting up.

Interviewer - OK, no problem. There is no given. Just provide all the information that you can and we'll be we'll be happy with it. There's no, There's no assumptions here. Assumptions are bad.

Question three, can you give me examples of activities these conditions have prevented you being able to do?

Participant - Um...Yeah, I guess like the most obvious one is like go to a shop and stand and look at things and then stand to queue and pay and then like walk home. I can't do that on my own anymore, I need a wheelchair now.
Ummm.
But then, even like things like, I can't...stand and make a meal. I can't...sit and do my PhD for any extended period of time. I need to take breaks. Is this the kind of thing?

Interviewer - Yeah, yup.

Participant - Cool.

Interviewer - Umm, and anything from little daily things to hobbies that you used to do that can't do anymore to hobbies that you were going to do or would want to do and can't do, at all.

Participant -Yeah, I guess like the major hobby that has stopped then is walking. I used to really like hike, which I can't do anymore. Ummm, and like, I used to go out a lot and go and like, stand and dance in clubs for...until stupid hours can't do that anymore. Ummm, and I guess just like going out at all, even to pubs is hard because I get fatigued so quickly even if I'm in the wheelchair that I can only do like a few hours now.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. It should obviously go without saying, but I will remind you if you need to take a break because of the subject matter at any point, feel free to do so. And if you want a moment to stop the recording, even if you want to keep talking during it, then by all means just help me.

Participant - Cool.

Interviewer - Question four. When is the earliest instance you can recall of your conditions inhibiting your mobility?

Participant - That's a bit of a tricky one because it's so in tandem with, ummm, the infection that I got, the really serious infection and that was the thing that I could feel stopping my mobility. And then when that disappeared, I still couldn't really move. So I guess, if if we started from the infection because I'm assuming it started from then...
twenty-twen...mid 2022.

Interviewer - OK.
Question...question five. I'm going to extrapolate what you said to mean extended exhaustion is also a thing.

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - If you agree with-

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - -that Question 5, can you give me examples of extended exhaustion after an activity?

Participant - Um.
So is is this including like post exertional Malaise kind of stuff.

Interviewer - Yes. Yeah.

Participant - OK, that actually is almost like-

Interviewer - Oh, sorry. Just just to note, do you do you suffer Post-Exertional Malaise?

Participant - Yeah, I did that in the first form and then forgot to say it. Sorry.

Interviewer - OK, no problem. Just, just to clarify.

Participant - Yeah, no, very much that, yeah. And in fact, that's almost like worse than in the moment fatigue because like, if so, we get the train to go visit my family, I'll feel like tired at the time and maybe like a bit out of it. But then the next day, I'll wake up and I'll be like, what have I done? Why like?
I'll feel like, you know, the day after going to the gym kind of thing. And I'm like, I've just sat on a train and then at a dinner table and then on a train again and that probably it hits it's worse probably 48 hours after. And so it will be the day after the day after. And I'll be like, I didn't even do anything yesterday why you doing this.
Kind of thing.

Interviewer - OK. Can you give me-sorry, question 6. Can you give me examples of brain fog inhibiting your activities?

Participant - Yeah. So umm... the most common one is like if I am just like...I I forget that it's going to hit. And so like if I'm just, like, posturing around the house and like picking things up, I'll start walking into things and not realising. And so then [partner] will be like, "You're doing the thing. You need to sit down" And I'll be like, "I can't even tell I'm walking into things you're just like, assuming I'm going to walk into things" And then... and then I'll sit down and be like, "Whoa, I was really tired." I'm only just realising is that kind of the vibe.

Interviewer - Yeah. Obviously...

Participant - Yeah. So, like walking into things, yeah.

Interviewer - Obviously symptoms like this affect everyone differently, especially depending what comorbidities they have with things like brain fog. So again...no wrong answers.

Participant - Yeah.
I'll lose words as well. Actually, that's another one. [partner] will be able to tell that I'm about to crash because I'll lose words and I'll be, like, so confused and he'll be like, "You need to sit down" and I'll be like, "No, I don't what you talking about" kind of thing. So, like, it's more apparent to other people than to me, if that makes sense.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK. Ummm...
So that's our little summary of conditions done.

Participant - Nice.

Interviewer - What device application do you currently use and when did you start using it or them?

Participant - So I use. I can double check. I think it's a Pixel Watch 2 with like the the Fitbit. Yeah, Pixel Watch 2 with the Fitbit app on it and I got it. Oh, I want to say the end of May because that was pre diagnosis because I was told that ummm, what-what would fix me would be graded exercise and what it ended up doing was proving that that was the opposite of the case.

Interviewer - Yeah.
So that was the end of May this year?

Participant - This year, yeah, this year.

Interviewer - OK, that's 2025.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Have you used any tools previously? Or is this the first device?

Participant - This is...this is the first time I've used it for this. I had like a Fitbit as a teenager, but that was more for walking and like pushing myself than what I use this for.

Interviewer - OK, so how do you use this device application?

Participant - Umm...I mainly use it for the the heart rate, monitring, eugh, the moni-tor-ing to be honest because the pedometer is not particularly reliable so it's hard to use that as a source. I also use it to track my sleep, ummm, to see if I've slept enough because again I...I'm often not aware of that. And so kind of the-then it uses those to give you like a readiness score. And so I will pay attention to that because I've noticed that that, definitely if a crash is coming the, the redness score is low and I have no idea how it works, I just know that it does.

Interviewer - OK.
You mentioned sleep. Do you have sleep disruptions?

Participant - See not diagnosedumm...sleep apnea runs in my family, and [partner] reckons I have it, but I haven't explored that particular one yet because I've been dealing with everything else.

Interviewer - OK, I'm going to jump back to Question 7, which I skipped because you hadn't mentioned it if that's OK?

Participant - OK. Yeah.

Interviewer - Can you give me examples of disruptions to your sleep schedule making your other symptoms worse?

Participant - Yeah, if I've overdone it, my brain will be like racing. So I can't like sleep after it. So if anything, doing too much makes me be able to sleep less, if that makes sense. And. And so I just feel like really, really restless instead of being able to sleep. And then so as a result, I'll quite often then be like falling asleep during the day.

Interviewer - Mm-hmm.

Participant - So I will find that my sleep schedule just gets out of whack quite quickly if I don't pay attention.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Sorry for that little jump.

Participant - It's fine.

Interviewer - Question 10. When do you use the device or application? So are there specific circumstances or specific scenarios?

Participant - I've been trying to use it all the time at the moment. I stopped using it for a while just because I forgot...it's been one of those things where I've been like...once I realised the pedometer wasn't working actually was the main-...or wasn't reliable was the main thing that made me stop using it much actually. But I've been trying to at least wear it overnight so I can, track my sleep.

Interviewer - Do you have any idea why the pedometer is unreliable in your, in your case?

Participant - I think possibly because it's designed for people who are walking like normally all the time, whereas I am usually using at least a mobility aid, if not the wheelchair. Like if I'm out in the wheelchair, it will think that every time the wheelchair moves over a slab it's a step which obviously isn't. And I mean now it thinks I'm running, it thinks I've just done like 300 steps here, just moving my arms.
So I think it just, it's not particularly reliable in terms of the way that I move.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. So obviously you mentioned you're trying to use it all the time. How frequently do you use it? How frequently have these times when you've not been using it all the time occurred?

Participant - When I first got it, I was using it. I probably used it for like a couple of months straight and then actually it was. I realised it wasn't really reliable and also it was making my eczema worse. So recently I...probably like last three weeks,
pretty much just before you mentioned it actually, I bought a new strap for it and then I've been trying to use it all the time. So like...it's not really been like frequent gaps, it was just more one big gap where I kind of fell out of using it a bit.

Interviewer - But otherwise it's been constant.

Participant - Yeah. Yeah, it's more. It's probably more of a forgetting and that kind of thing.

Interviewer - OK. Thanks very much. Can you give me examples of activities that caused your decision to use the device or application?

Participant - Well, my initial decision was because I was trying to walk further and so I was...my goal was to like, walk to the end of the street one day and then go a bit further the next day and then actually I was finding that I wasn't...even to go able to go that far the next day and so actually what I ended up doing was proving...like having like written proof of the post exertional malaise.
So yeah, I don't know if that's what you're looking for because I don't really use that anymore.

Interviewer - No, that's again no wrong answers.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - Can you...question 13, can you give me examples of times the device or app has alerted you to over exertion?

Participant - Umm.
Yeah, I have most of the alerts on, but again I don't find them particularly reliable. Especially I have the stress ones turned on and they quite often will go. We noticed stress 10 minutes ago and then I'm like, well, that's not particularly helpful now because I've forgotten what I was doing 10 minutes ago now.

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - But I mean, when I was a couple weeks ago, I wasn't staying at home. In fact, while you were all at [gathering], I was staying at my family's house again, and...ummm.. I was, I had it on all the time then, just because it was easier than leaving it upstairs.
And I noticed that as the days went on because I was sitting up with my family more rather than napping more often, I could see that my heart rate was, my resting heart rate was getting worse. So I guess from like, a knowing my body perspective, seeing that my resting heart rate was higher.
I don't know if that counts.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Question 14, can you give me examples of activities you started after using the device application?

Participant - I don't know that there are any apart from maybe...Again, I don't know if it was because of the device or because I got diagnosed with chronic fatigue syndrome, I've been doing like an afternoon nap more, just as like, part of my routine. But I don't know that that's because of the watch.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Question 15, can you give me examples of regular activities you've stopped participating in as a result of the device application?

Participant - I guess yeah, trying to...power through. But again, I've had the watch since before I knew I had chronic fatigue syndrome, but I guess... yeah, listening to it more and the the rising heart rate, definitely I've been trying to just stop doing things more, I guess.

Interviewer - OK. And oh, I've lost my place. Thank you, brain fog.
Can you give me examples of activities you might have started were you not using the device or application?

Participant - I don't know that there are any.

Interviewer - OK, that's fine. If there are none.

Participant - Ummm...

Interviewer - Oh?

Participant - Yeah, I don't think so.

Interviewer - OK, question 17, can you give me examples of events that demonstrate your decision to choose this device?

Participant - I mean, the reason I picked this specifically over just a Fitbit is because I can put my train tickets on it, which sounds really silly, but because I use a stick, it's really hard to use a stick and hold the phone so I can literally just have the barcode...so I don't, I don't know, again, I don't know if that's what you're looking for. If you're looking for the fitness bit specifically.
But I-it-the-it's multifunctional.

Interviewer - OK, you're, hmmm, I'll, I'll discuss with you after the the relevance of that and you can if anything extra comes up you can by all means e-mail me about it.
Question 18 what form would your ideal device or application take?
Would it be the same as you have now, like a wristwatch? Or would it be something else?

Participant - Yeah, I think a wristwatch is quite easy, although.
I don't know if I would like something that you could more easily put further up your arm, because I think that would reduce the amount that the pedometer picked up things that weren't... movement, and also because I get eczema, it's-it would be really good to be able to move it around my body more.

Interviewer - OK, question 19, what functions would you remove from your current device?

Participant - Ermmm...I wish there were times you could turn the pedometer off, like brushing my teeth or something. Or if I know I'm going out in the wheelchair, I wish it there were points where I could just be like, don't even try and detect walking here because it's not happening.

Interviewer - Ummm...
OK. Anything else?

Participant - Umm.
I don't think there's anything else that we oh, yes, there is actually. And it's about the app. Is that you have to set like daily step goals and you have to set weight loss goals. And those are just not even on my radar. So actually it's kind of demoralising to be like "You're 500 steps short of your goal today" when...I'm just trying to exist.

Interviewer - Yeah. Do you use those goals as more of a ceiling as a maximum, or do you just put something random in there? Or is it something else?

Participant - I've got the same account as I had since before I was ill, so I've just not changed it, but the idea of using it as a ceiling is good actually, and I'm going to do that now.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - I I I get-I can-I can talk more about that afterwards, if you like.

Participant - Cool.

Interviewer - Question 20. What functions would you add?

Participant - Yeah. Again, I don't know if they're taking away and the adding the same, but like a wheelchair setting where you can be like I'm in the wheelchair now.

Interviewer - Oh.

Participant - And that might that might be it.
Yeah, I don't know there's much else that I feel like I'm missing. Although actually it would be more useful to be able to add notes to the graphs they give you and be like this was the stairs. This was....I don't know...I tried to walk to the shop and I shouldn't have kind of thing. I wish I could look back at-because I don't have the memory automatically. It would be good to be able to look back at them and go oh, at the time I knew what this was.

Interviewer - OK, right. Thank you very much. I believe that's everything on the questions, unless there's something you'd like to add.

Participant - I don't think so. I honestly can't remember much of what I've said because it's hot and my brain isn't really working, so I'm hoping I said everything I meant to.

Interviewer - No problem. Again, if you remember something, by all means feel free to contact me and add it in.

Participant - Cool.

Interviewer - Right. I'm going to stop recording then if that's all right. OK.

Participant - Yeah, no worries.
