Interviewer OK, so this is the main body of the interview now. So I won't stop unless you want to break. This will be one big-big recording.

Interviewer - So, during the past week I have found that my motivation is lower when I am fatigued.

Participant - 5, I think.

Interviewer - 5.

Participant - Yeah, 5.

Interviewer - Was that? Yeah. OK. A 5. So that's slightly agreeing.

Participant - The motivation might be there, but the ability to actually act on the motivation is possibly none.

Interviewer - Yeah, I'm going to check on the first couple of questions as you get used to the scale, because changing scales in these surveys is always um...quite mentally taxing.

Participant - I'm also not great at scales because I'm like...nuance.

Interviewer - Yeah, yeah, no, exactly. This is this is the raw data. That nuanced bit is later.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - So yeah, gut-gut feeling gut impression. In the past week I found that exercise brings on my fatigue one to seven again.

Participant - Yeah, 6.

Interviewer - Six? I am easily fatigued.

Participant - 6.

Interviewer - 6.
Fatigue interferes with my physical functioning.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7.
Fatigue causes frequent problems for me.

Participant - Yeah, seven, I think.

Interviewer - Seven. My fatigue prevents sustained physical functioning.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7.
Fatigue interferes with carrying out certain duties and responsibilities.

Participant - Yeah.
6, I think.

Interviewer - 6. Fatigue is among my three most disabling symptoms.

Participant - Yeah, I think 6.

Interviewer - 6. Fatigue interferes with my work, family or social life.

Participant - Five.

Interviewer - Five, OK. Thank you very much. Right, the second part.
Slightly different scale, zero to three, and there's specific meaning to these. So this is measuring fatigue in the sense of sleepiness. So use this scale to choose the most appropriate number for each activity.
Zero would never doze. One is a slight chance of dozing. 2 is a moderate chance of dozing, and 3 is a high chance of dozing. Zero to three.
So, even if you haven't done them recently.
Think about your gut feeling or your experience of what you would expect.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - So sitting and reading. Zero to three.

Participant - Probably 0.

Interviewer - Zero. Watching TV.

Participant - Probably...1.

Interviewer - 1.
Sitting inactive in a public place, for example, a theatre or a meeting.

Participant - Zero.

Interviewer - Zero. As a passenger in a car for an hour without a brake.

Participant - Probably about a one.

Interviewer - 1.
I've lost my place here. Thank you, brain fog. Lying down to rest in the afternoon.

Participant - Ah, and it gets to be more 2 now.

Interviewer - 2.
Sitting and talking to someone.

Participant - Zero.

Interviewer - 0. Sitting quietly after lunch brackets when you've had no alcohol. I did not write these...to-to specify.

Participant - Uh.
We...Probably a zero, I think.

Interviewer - A 0.

Participant - It depends, but again nuance.

Interviewer - No, yeah, that's fine. We'll-we'll go to the zero. In a car while stopped in traffic.

Participant - Presuming I'm-I'm the passenger.

Interviewer - Presumably, I'd hope.

Participant - Yeah, one.

Interviewer - One. OK, thank you very much. Right. So that's the two parter done.
Where's the other one? Gone? There it is, right.
This next one.
Is a little more wordy. I think it's the. It's the last month related-so compare using your last month and comparing it to your baseline.
So, for example, to use the tea example again, I am drinking-sorry. Do-do you drink more herbal tea, and you go...in the last month compared to my baseline. And your answers are then...in in relation to this: better than usual, no worse than usual, worse than usual, or much worse than usual. So...

Participant - Can I write those down?

Interviewer - I can repeat them if you want, or you can write them or I can paste them in the chat.

Participant - Yeah, if you could paste them, I'd appreciate it.

Interviewer - Yeah.
Yeah, this this is the one that I struggled to read, so I'm not surprised if people struggle to answer, to be honest.

Participant - Literally, whenever I've gone to any sort of like mental health place and they've-they've given me a scale that involves words and they're like, I'm going to need this written down.

Interviewer - Yeah, it's. Oh, just answer these simple questions and your brain is there going uhhhhhhhhh?

Participant - It's like if somebody asks you like, what's your favourite cake and you go... I've now forgotten every cake I've ever had.

Interviewer - Yeah, yeah, I know. That's bang on.
Which is also more difficult to read this one, so sorry if there's a little delay between questions. Is that OK for you? Is that what you're needing?

Participant - Yeah, that's helpful. Thank you.

Interviewer - OK, so.
First question on this one, do you have problems with tiredness?

Participant - Umm.
Oh, this is a yes and no, isn't it?

Interviewer - This is a better than usual, no worse than usual. Every single question is using that set of answers. So for the last month, compared to your baseline, do you have problems with tiredness? Better than usual, no worse than usual, worse or much worse.

Participant - Oh.
OK. All right.
Right. Sorry about the ambulance.

Interviewer - No problem.

Participant - I'm sorry I'm so stupid. Could you just repeat the question?

Interviewer - Yeah, it's. I, I-I have this a lot with this one. This is the least friendly to brain flog-brain fog.

Participant - Frog?

Interviewer - Frog. Do you have problems with tiredness?

Participant - Erm...worse than usual, I think.

Interviewer - Worse than usual, but not much worse, to clarify.

Participant - Yeah, it's a bit worse than it is usually.

Interviewer - OK.
Do you need to rest more?

Participant - Um.
Yeah, much worse than usual.

Interviewer - Much worse.
Do you feel sleepy or drowsy?

Participant - Worse than usual, I think.

Interviewer - Worse?

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Do you have problems starting things?

Participant - Much worse than usual.

Interviewer - Much worse.
Do you lack energy?

Participant - Yeah, much, much worse than usual.

Interviewer - Much worse. Do you have less strength in your muscles?

Participant - Probably no worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse.
Typing left-handed with a cup of tea in my hand is difficult.
Sorry about that.
Do you feel weak?

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse.
Do you have difficulties concentrating?

Participant - Much worse than usual.

Interviewer - Much worse.
Do you make slips of the tongue when speaking?

Participant - Oh yeah, much worse than usual.

Interviewer - Much worse, almost like flogging. Do you find it difficult-Do you find it more difficult to find the right word?

Participant - Yeah, definitely worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - How is your memory?

Participant - Yeah, also worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual.

Participant - I forgot what disabilities I had at the start.

Interviewer - Hmm.
Yeah, not-not uncommon I'll be honest. Right. OK, so that is that done? That's all of your weird wordy surveys done. Which is, to be blunt, I find the most difficult bit. So that's... lovely and lovely.
Demographics, fill in the thing, right, main body of the interview. I am going to ask before the main interview. Have you anything like a an activity diary you'd like to submit it all? It's not-not mandatory, purely optional.

Participant - Umm.
I do not. Also again ambulances.

Interviewer - OK, yeah, no problem. I-I only hear...I didn't hear the first one. I heard a very small tail end of that one, I genuinely thought it was a bird.

Participant - Oh, OK to me...it's so loud because the main road is there. Like, like if I point that direction, I'm pointing at the [landmark].

Interviewer - Yeah, yeah.
Yeah. No, it's.

Participant - In that in that vague direction...[landmark], yeah.

Interviewer - Yeah, that that road does get a bit busy, right? Where's...?
There it is, right. OK. So for these ones, there's no particular format to the answer. You can not answer, if you want, you can ramble on for half an hour for a single question if you want, no pressure with time or format.
And by all means, feel free to circle back to something there, because there are some questions I will only ask if you mentioned something earlier. So we might jump around a bit if something comes up.

Participant - Cool.

Interviewer - OK. Question number one. What chronic mobility condition or conditions do you have?

Participant - So I have joint hypermobility. I have a unnamed congenital calf condition. It's not necessarily mobility, but it can affect it sometimes. My irritable bowel syndrome will cause...cramps that are quite painful that can cause a lot of muscle tightness at the top of my thighs as well, so that can also be...you know, it impacts and then the-the amount of energy going into these conditions also, you know, knocks me out a bit.

Interviewer - Sorry, that congenital condition. Can you be a little more specific if you can?

Participant - Yeah, it doesn't help the doctors are always vague.

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - So I'll have I'll just speed run...I'll speedrun it. Oh, yeah, I also hav-.

Interviewer - Just to note I will, I will ask about symptoms in a second.

Participant - Oh.

Interviewer - So if it's list of symptoms, save it for that. But more in one word it is because it's a congenital. Was it a calf condition?

Participant - Calf, yeah.

Interviewer - For you so legs.

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - OK. Is that blood flow or muscles or...?

Participant - The.
The muscles are too short for my body and that causes a lot of tightness and pain.

Interviewer - OK.
OK, right. Thank you very much. And you went, sorry you went to mention something and I cut you off there, sorry.

Participant - No, it's OK. It was that that I was going to mention, so don't worry about it.

Interviewer - OK, perfect.
Um, can you describe to me the symptoms of these conditions that you experience?

Participant - So with the calf condition, if I overexert myself or sometimes randomly, my calf muscle will become very tight, very tense. This will cause a lot of pain.
So it means walking anywhere will be...erm...difficult. And then also really quite exerting which will cause me to feel quite, you know, fatigued, low energy. The joint hypermobility as well, because my joints are more flexible, having to exert a lot of energy into keeping them relatively straight. If-if that makes sense. So if I'm wearing shoes that don't have ankle support, I'm having to put a lot of energy into making sure my ankles aren't like doing this. (wobbling motion)
Then with the irritable bowel syndrome, if I'm having a flare up that will cause a lot of abdominal pain and that abdominal-abdominal pain can travel into the tops of the legs.
And then that can cause similar sort of issues of walking, mobility and again, the amount of energy the body is having to exert trying to correct that, that if that makes sense.
It-it, it just causes a lot of energy usage I suppose.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities these conditions have prevented you from being able to do. Not just stuff that you used to do, but stuff that you want to do but...and-and have never done but can't.

Participant - So in terms of like exercise, so like walking, I'm able to walk for an amount. You know, I'm able to walk around a city, but I will be in...a lot of pain. So the ability to travel distances on foot that can be affected. If I'm wanting to do exercise like, you know, like on purpose rather than just walking somewhere as in.
A concerted effort to do exercise cycling I can manage as long as I'm on the flat. The minute I have to cycle anywhere that has hills, I'm out, I can't do it. If I'm.
I can't use running machines at a gym.
The uh...actually I-I can use them for like let's say 5 minutes 5-10 minutes. But because of my calf condition it forces my feet into tiptoe position and so when I run, I run on my tip toes and then what that then does is puts a huge strain, which makes me just sort of crash from the fatigue. It's not something that you can keep up, and because I'm not physically able to run at any different way that would save energy, it kind of...
You know, it cut short the amount of time I'd be able to do, you know, running on like a running machine. Other stuff that it prevents me from doing.
Sorry, brains having a bit of a minute.

Interviewer - No problem. Take your time.

Participant - Yeah, I mean it, it just also stopped me from, you know.
Like other-other people my age who are not, you know, who don't have disabilities, if they-they would think nothing of, you know, several miles long walk to get somewhere and...yeah. Even though I feel like the stuff that I can technically do, but I'm able to do it only if I'm in a lot of pain and just kind of ignore it. I don't know how to phrase it. Sorry.

Interviewer - Well.
Yep, that's no problem. Is there anything else you'd like to add?

Participant - I'm sure there's some kind of activity that I'm forgetting. Again, it's the cake of forgetting every activity I've ever done.

Interviewer - At-at risk of leading you, were you not looking into archery?

Participant - Good point, yeah.

Interviewer - Because that is, that is also a walk away from you as well.

Participant - Yes, that's a good point.

Interviewer - There's at least two different ways that I can personally think of. But if you can think of any other ways to expand on it, then by all means do.

Participant - Yeah. So basically any activity that involves walking up to the Uni or you know regularly walking into town will be difficult for me.
Yeah, especially with anything that happens at the Uni. So any society that would include archery, that would include any music based societies that meet up there, etcetera.
I'm kind of like prohibited from going to places regularly unless there were alternative like venues. Like if there was in the town, sometimes wouldn't be as bad. But if there's activities that exclusively happen on campus, I kind of can't go to them.

Interviewer - Yeah, because I'm... to provide information without needing it to be redacted. That particular university is up a hill, is it not. Quite a, quite a steep hill that takes a good 15...10-15 minutes for a normal person to walk up.

Participant - Yeah, and...The steep hill to get to university from where I am...erm...that steep hill is at minimum a 30 minute walk, and if I'm having to walk up it, I have to take regular breaks and will always be in pain. There is no, there is no way to walk up the hill without being in pain.

Interviewer - Yeah. So I've just sent you a message relevant to the archery thing with a clarification if you want to look at later that because that name's a specific location. So on-on the hill. Yeah, the-the even worse context.
Most of the town has the hill, but it's-it's still steep, but quite a lot shallower gradient than where you are. So you-you would be a much steeper hill isn't-isn't that correct?

Participant - Yeah, that's-there's more or less two hills, as it were in the town. And I live near the worst one, yeah.

Interviewer - Yeah. Or-or more like two sides of the same hill. And one side is a lot, lot steeper. It is, it is nicknamed Cardiac Hill for a reason.

Participant - Yes.
It is.
Yeah.

Interviewer - OK. Is there anything else specific?

Participant - My GP practice is also located on the very steep hill, so I also have accessibility issues with being able to actually access healthcare because I do not own a car, I have to walk there. And I, you know, have fatigue when walking it kind of..

Interviewer - Yeah. And-and again for-for the sake of context of the recording, there is no direct bus. You would have to either walk into town on the flat and then get a bus up the hill or get a bus from where you are to town and then change buses and go up the hill, correct?

Participant - Yeah. Yes.

Interviewer - OK. Anything else you'd like to add?

Participant - Think that's about that for that question.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. When is the earliest instance you can recall of your condition inhibiting your mobility?

Participant - So...

Interviewer - Obviously with a congenital condition, by all means clarify that modifier, because that's not a normal modifier that we can...we considered when writing.

Participant - So...
I suppose it was always there, but when I first started noticing slightly different things.
So when I...can't even remember how old I was, let me just think.
I must have been about four, maybe four-ish when...I didn't. Yeah, when other children were walking, I was not walking. And the reason why was because of the calf condition.
Also dyspraxia, but that's like, you know the-the...sorry, the dyspraxia does not cause the fatigue, but it does. It doesn't help.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - But for both the congenital calf condition and the dyspraxia, I had to have physical therapy from when I was very young. So before primary school age, about four years old. And so that's when I became aware, because I had to go to the doctor, see specialists about it and...I would have to be. I have to wear special boots to school. When I started primary school.
This...yeah, this would, you know, cause pain because it just it would force my feet to be in a more normal position. And so that would also exacerbate the existing fatigue caused.

Interviewer - Mmmm.

Participant - Yeah, the you know, there's a there's a baseline that the condition caused and then there's the sort of cosmetic modifiers to make me walk more normally that added a bit on top.

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - If that's useful to have or know.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much.
OK, so this isn't meant to be a question, I'm only going to bring up with mentioned, but I think this is relevant, reading between the lines. Extended exhaustion AKA post exertional malaise, kind of thing, relevant to you or not.

Participant - Yes, I think so.

Interviewer - OK. Can you give me examples of extended exhaustion after an activity?

Participant - So...
For example, one recent one happened on the 31st of July this year when I was visiting a large city. I'm pretty sure you know the city and...What happened was I had to travel to several different places within this city and...the exertion really sort of caught up to me, especially because I needed a phone charger this...led to me having to go on a quest to go and find a phone charger. Buy one.
What ended up happening is when I finally arrived home after that exertion, I more or less was unable to leave the House and do most tasks after that. So after exertion I will be...more or less bed bound, only getting up if I have to eat or use the bathroom.
This this has also happened...For example, where I live here, having to walk quite a long distance over several hills. Upon returning home, I am immediately crashing into bed. I am not getting up for several hours.

Interviewer - Cool.

Participant - I hope I'm describing things in a way that's helpful, and I know that I can be vague.

Interviewer - Even the way that you were describing it is useful. Also, there's-there's no expectation of describing things in a specific way, because even if you say that there is a problem but you're struggling to describe it, that's a symptom.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Like exhibiting symptoms in the interview is more than OK and won't...
I'm exhibiting a symptom I can't think of the right word, obstruct? Not quite what I mean, but I think you know what I mean. The-the study. So like, not being able to describe things in a purely academic way won't...make what you're providing less valuable.

Participant - Yeah, yeah, because like doctors hate me because I am kind of vague. They'll be like, how does this affect you? And I'll describe it. But what they're looking for something specific. So I'm glad that's not the case here.

Interviewer - Yeah.
Yeah, they're, they're-they're looking for a specific phrase from their textbook and you're unable to think of that specific word and also unable to think of putting it that specific way and they're trying to draw it out of you and it's just not happening.

Participant - And it won't, and it won't click for them. If I don't say the code word basically.

Interviewer - Yeah.
Yeah.
That-that is not the case with this. So yeah, feel free to describe things in the way that is most comfortable for you.
OK question 6, can you give me examples of brain fog inhibiting activities?

Participant - So.
I mean, even just whilst talking, you know, I-I also have the thing where I'll either, you know, pause for a really long time or I'll be trying to think of the right, the right word, that just won't come to me. It'll impact any academic work. So if I'm trying to describe a concept or a bit of...research...
What will end up happening is I'll get stuck. You know, the stumbling point will be my inability to think of the either the content I want to write about or the, or a phrasing that I want to use.
Even if it's a topic that I know that I know really, really well, like my dissertation topic.
Even though I should know this upside down and backwards, my brain can sometimes just short out and it's-it's as if I don't know anything, even though I do.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much.
Umm...
OK. So again like question five, I'm reading between the lines here...sleep schedule. Is it affected and if it is, does it exacerbate your symptoms or do your symptoms cause sleep schedule disruptions?
That's sleep schedule disruptions.

Participant - Yes, I'd say it does impact sleep.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - So if I've had like a exhaustion crash like I've described, if I've been out walking for a long time, unable to sit down and rest, come home, bed immediately.
There's two ways this will affect me. The 1st way is if I end up crashing into bed and I'm not normally a person who takes naps, but sometimes my body will forcibly make me take a nap.
If this happens, I won't be able to then sleep at night.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - The 2nd way is if I'm in too much physical pain to sleep.
So I will be-I could feel really tired. I'll be so fatigued mentally I am, will just be just...Unable to do anything more taxing than 1 + 1 = 2. However...I might be prevented from sleeping because of physical pain. I also used to have restless leg syndrome, which still have on and off. But as a teenager it was really bad, which was a symptom of the...disabilities as well. So if I'm in pain, I might move my legs a little bit to ease the pain, which then in turn prevents me from sleep because I'm moving, if that makes sense.

Interviewer - I've not heard of that symptom before. OK, that's really interesting.

Participant - Oh.
I can type it if you want just.

Interviewer - No, it will be transcribed and-and put in written form, but by all means don't tax yourself extra, needlessly.

Participant - But yeah-

Interviewer - That's the-the last thing I want with participants of a study like this is for people to go to extra work.

Participant - Yes. Yeah.
But yeah, restless leg syndrome. It's relatively common as a condition that affects sleep, but there's lots of different things that can cause it, and it can go into remission and then just come back out of nowhere. So yeah.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. OK. So question 7, can you give me examples of disruptions to your sleep schedule making your other symptoms worse. If you don't, can't describe it more than you already have then, by all means, just say that.

Participant - So if I'm like unable to sleep, obviously that causes more tension in my body because you know, that's what sleep does to a sleep deprived person. That tension...If I'm like, holding myself in a way that might cause cramps.
That can then, you know, as a knock on of the sleep that can then sort of trigger my disabilities to start, you know, flaring up.

Interviewer - Mmm.

Participant - So if I'm really tired and I'm like sort of holding your attention in my legs that can then spark my calves to start going off and doing their thing. And if I'm then trying to go on with my day, I am just going to be...You know, dredge day I think is the best way to put it. I'm just going to know that whatever I do that day because of the sleep deprivation, my disabilities are just going to be having a free for all.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Right on to more device focused questions now. What device or application do you currently use for these conditions and when did you start using it or them?

Participant - So I use on my phone a separate app that I downloaded which is called Activity Tracker.
And I used it well, I've been using it for just about a month, I think.

Interviewer - OK. Have you used any previous tools of any kind before? So this includes diet trackers, sleep trackers, not just fitness trackers.
Oh, and also the devices that remind you to drink water and track water consumption.

Participant - Oh yeah, I used to use one of these around about October of last year.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - Probably a couple of months then, but I stopped using that one.

Interviewer - OK, if you want to chip in with anything about that in addition to your current device, feel free.

Participant - Yeah. So that that specific app was had a lot of different self-care reminders. Your drinking water was included in, for example, reminders to rest, that sort of thing.

Interviewer - Mmm.

Participant - And...I used that just...For a brief period, though, so it's not something I've continued. I'm not sure if it's useful.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. I'm just gonna put this on the table over there.
Right. Hello again. OK, question 9, how do you use this device or application?

Participant - So because it's a pedometer, it's obviously it's tracking the amount of steps that I do and I mainly use it to try and estimate...one how far it is in terms of steps between places that I need to go regularly.
And two to figure out if I'm having fatigue and you know a lot of symptoms are happening, finding out what distance or how many steps has caused that. Since it also measures distance as well. So it'll say you've done this many kilometres.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK. Thank you very much. When do you use the device or application?

Participant - So it's on like all the time, so it counts my steps more or less all the time, but I tend to use it if I've been out all day and I've gotten home. I'll check how many steps that was to see...Um, if I'm feeling fatigued...Figure out what kind of ballpark figure it is that I get fatigued at, so that I kind of know for future.

Interviewer - OK. And this might be a little bit of a repeat. How frequently do you use the device or application?

Participant - So if I'm checking it, yeah, on purpose, it'll just be at the end of some kind of exertion, whether it's like walking or if I've done exercise on purpose.

Interviewer - OK, so I think it's fair to say that this is outside of the manufacturer scope because I'm guessing this is an application that wants you to walk more to become fitter?

Participant - Yeah, it has a has a calorie tracker which I don't use at all...like I think it has like it has the data there, but I just don't look at it. It's not relevant to what I'm using it for.

Interviewer - OK, is, is, are there any other ways that you would say you were using the device outside of manufacturer scope?

Participant - Umm...Let me just think a minute.
So yeah, the-the main function of the app is to track like you have a goal that you set so you have people setting they want to do so many steps in a day. I've got it set to 7-7000 at the minute.
But it's not that that I'm particularly sort of focused on, I suppose, like it's nice if I met that target, but I'm not using the app to meet a target, I suppose.

Interviewer - OK.
Can you give me examples of activities that caused your decision to use the device or application?

Participant - So just sort of walking to different locations in town. Seeing how many steps it takes me to get from my house to, you know, places that I go regularly.
What else?
Oh yeah, and also just to see if the actual effects of physical exercise.
Like, I'm not sure how to phrase it.

Interviewer - Take your time.

Participant - Yeah, just sort of seeing how...if I am doing exercise on purpose a bit more seeing that, how that then affects me, I suppose is the main-main kind of draw as well.

Interviewer - Mmm.

Participant - So that I don't overdo it, I guess.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of times the device or application alerted you to over exertion?

Participant - So...
As I'm sort of figuring out where-where my baseline is, what my limits are, if I've walked a lot in a day and I come home and sort of check the app and I find that I've done maybe double or triple the amount of steps, that's my limit.
You know, I can then kind of have a clear picture in my head of, I have really overdone it. I, that then sort of tells me I need to go and do some self-care because, you know, I-I-I should have...I should have done some self-care...You know, maybe half this amount of steps ago.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities you started after using the device or application?

Participant - So...I mean, I've started cycling more because I have acquired a bike so...
Because I've-I've now got a bike that helps me get into town a bit faster, it's now using the app to see as well what kind of effects the different kind of physical activity has, rather than just walking, which is my predominant...physical activity before.

Interviewer - OK. Quick question on that. Are you using a cycling mode in the application at all?

Participant - The-I don't think the app actually has one, so I suppose it's maybe not as useful if I'm just winging it as it were.

Interviewer - So you you're hoping that it's recording distance travelled or interpreting your cycling as steps in a way that's comparable then I suppose.

Participant - Yeah, because the-the term step as well, it's kind of, because it's a phone, it's maybe not as accurate as a-a purpose built device. So if your phone is in your bag and it's jostling around, that might count steps by accident. So it's not...as precise, but it does also record distance, so there is that there is that usefulness for distance.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Just a quick question on the particulars of that app. Do you know if it records distance using GPS or something or if it's using distance by or if it's estimating distance by exten-extruding out from the number of steps.

Participant - I think it's from the...amount of steps I think. Because...because when I actually downloaded the app, one of the reasons I downloaded it is because it has minimal data gathering and if I remember correctly it sort of asks you at the start how big your typical stride is.

Interviewer - Yes.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of regular activities you stopped participating in as a result of using the device or application?

Participant - I've not really stopped doing anything other than walking too far. I-I don't know if that counts.

Interviewer - Umm...OK. So would you say...Hmm.
OK. So can you give me examples of things that you have put off or changes in your prioritisation as a result of using the device or application?

Participant - Actually prioritisation is a good way to put it, because if I know the distance that I need to travel and I know that going that far on foot will be too exerting for me and then much more likely than I used to be since having the app, to consider if I could try and find a different way. So if there's a bus that I can take or if I can do part of the route...if there's different terrain that I can kind of...You know, find a different way rather than defaulting to my usual...You know path, I suppose. And the app would help with that because it's, it does give me a way to sort of actually think in terms of numbers rather than just guesstimating.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities you might have started were you not using the device or application?

Participant - I don't think...
There's anything that I was...
Although...
Might-might just need a minute just to think.

Interviewer - No problem. Take your time.

Participant - Hmm.
I don't think I was thinking of starting at anything that would be significant enough if that makes sense.

Interviewer - Is, well, is there anything that would fall into that category of not significant enough that you were thinking of starting that you haven't?

Participant - Like I, I've been thinking of like...outside of like the university as well-being being up the hill, you know, sort of activities that I could do there. Outside of that, ummm...You know there's other sorts of like...Sports that I've been thinking about that I've...not done, that I've been, you know, too...There's too much exertion that...You know, I-I used to like about two years ago. I used to live in a location in the town near one of the two bowling clubs. And I, you know, I attended that Bowling Club for a while and I live near a different one now and I was thinking of going to that but...I have to walk about 15 minutes to get there and then the exertion for sort of the bending down and the...
Activity involved, I think the...Amount of energy that I would need to do that regularly, that specific activity, I've kind of gone "Nah". not to like...That's the best way I can put it. The thought process was "Nah".

Interviewer - OK.
To specify that's lawn bowls, garden bowls, correct.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Sort of. The English version of Petanque.

Participant - Basically, yeah.

Interviewer - OK.
So...that involves a lot of standing, doesn't it? If I'm correct?

Participant - Yeah, there's not generally an ability to sit very much even though the demographics for bowling skews older because of the...because of the way that things are set up, you kind of need to be stood up to be able to gauge the distances.
Compared to a few other sports where you might be able to sit down like 10 pin bowling for example, you could absolutely sit down.

Interviewer - Yeah. Yeah. OK. Thanks very much. Almost at the end. Can you give me examples of events that demonstrate your decision to choose this device or application?

Participant - Events?

Interviewer - Mhmm.
Things that vindicate your choice to put energy into using it.

Participant - I'm not exactly sure how you mean. Could you like rephrase it a little bit?

Interviewer - So an occurrence where something has happened and you've-you've decided this has gone better because I'm using the device than if I wasn't using the device.

Participant - Alright, OK.

Interviewer - So a circumstance where you feel justified in using the device because it's better for you as a result that you have been using it.

Participant - I suppose um...Sort of going on like my usual sort of walk. And if I've stops to check my phone and have a look at the app and I've noticed that I've stayed well within my limits and not overexerted myself, I've kind of then gone "This is useful to have".
Because if I didn't have this, if I wasn't...If I wasn't able to check mid exercise or mid activity, I would likely you know, against my better judgement carry on and then end up overdoing it. So I suppose that would be it.

Interviewer - So it prevents that feeling of "No, I've got to push through and get to the end of this".

Participant - Yeah, I've got a lot more...I've got the I've got more ability to kind of go.
"Yes, I want to continue" or "No, I don't want to continue" depending on...
You know where I'm at when I check the app.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Yeah. Sorry. I know that's quite a wordy and perhaps incuse question.
Right. Three final questions. These are more speculative. What form would your ideal device or application take?

Participant - So...
Like an ideal sort of device or application.
Possibly something that's a little bit more accurate than a sort of generic phone app, so we'll probably be talking a wearable device of some description. I would also like...Yeah, I would also say things like things like heart rate would be useful to monitor. Steps, distance travelled, options for alternative modes of transport that are physical, so...riding a bike, walking, that kind of thing.
Or skateboarding if-if somebody skateboarded I guess. What else? Perhaps a specific piece of coding that if you sort of input, if I go beyond this amount of steps or this amount of distance, I will get fatigued, some kind of alert that goes..."You're nearing your limit. Do you want to continue, or do you want to go back home?" That's that sort of thing, that sort of automates the that process, because it's easy to get wrapped up in something and then forget.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - Yeah.
I think that's about.
Everything that I'd put.

Interviewer - OK, you have unintentionally answered the next two questions. What functions would you add and what functions would you remove?

Participant - Oh.
Oops.

Interviewer - No, that's perfectly fine. I will specify the current question more.
Perhaps it should be reworded. What physical form would your ideal device or application take,so you-you mentioned a wearable? Is there a particular form of wearable or more than one or something that isn't on the market yet that you've-you've had an idea about?

Participant - I mean, I suppose.
The default is like a wrist wearable, though I don't know if like there's...Depending on if somebody wanted more...You know in-depth data. I know there's, like, certain disabilities where you might need to monitor your heart, for example, or even things like insulin. If there was, like, a device that could also have...Ways to...Shake hands of other people's disability devices, I suppose, would also be like a nice feature. I know I'm doing it again. I f*** sorry I'm swearing.

Interviewer - No, no, it's perfectly fine. I'm-I'm going to be redacting this all anyway.

Participant - Please, please redact the swearing. I did not mean it's just very hot today.

Interviewer - No, it's no problem, it's no problem.
Yeah. OK. So...
Can you elaborate on that handshake feature a little bit? So is this is this multiple devices from different people interacting with each other?

Participant - No, I mean more like if your fatigue or disabilities, you know, if you have a certain condition that requires you to monitor something else, for example, blood pressure, insulin, heart rate. I'm thinking about my friend [name], who had a device that [they] wore...That was constantly monitoring [their] insulin. If the device had a...You know, had a sort of function or feature that allowed that to connect to that device.
So like for example with a...Like a, an insulin monitor...If the, if the device was, let's say, worn on the wrist...If that was then able to get the data from the insulin monitor and then also display that for sort of ease of use, I suppose on the specific device, although I could be getting ahead of myself here.

Interviewer - So you were talking about a system of devices like, almost like mobile watches interacting with the mobile phone as-as a pair.

Participant - Yeah, a sort of linking of.

Interviewer - OK, OK. But allall for a single user, yeah.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. Thank you very much.
I think there was a little clashing of terminology there, so thank you for clarifying. Yeah, thank you very much. I think that is everything on my end, unless there's something you want to add or circle back to...because the start was focused on condition description-
Condition descriptions and symptoms. The middle was about the device.
The tail was the combination of the two and how we're using one affects the other. And then you had that little speculative bit at the end. So if there's anything you'd like to-to add to any of these, go ahead.

Participant - I think I've been quite comprehensive, sorry if I got a bit sci-fi at the end of that.

Interviewer - No problem, no problem at all. Right. I'm going to finish the recording then.
