Interviewer - There we go. Right first survey. Do you have problems with tiredness?

Participant - Worse than usual.

Interviewer - Do you need to rest more?

Participant - Worse than usual.

Interviewer - Do you feel sleepy or drowsy?

Participant - Worse than usual.

Interviewer - Do you have problems starting things?

Participant - Paradoxical, paradoxically, better than usual.

Interviewer - We love a terrible baseline. Do you lack energy?

Participant - Umm.
About the same as usual.

Interviewer - So no worse?

Participant - No worse.

Interviewer - Do you have less strength in your muscles?

Participant - Much worse than usual.

Interviewer - Much worse. Do you feel weak?

Participant - Worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual. Do you have difficulties concentrating?

Participant - Worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual. Do you make slips of the tongue when speaking?

Participant - Oh.
About the same as usual, no worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse. Do you find it more difficult to find the right word?

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse.
And how is your memory?

Participant - Worse than usual? Yeah, worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual.
OK, right. So that's survey number 1.
Two more.
Neither of the next two use words. They use number scales.

Participant - Yeah.
Love a number.

Interviewer - So...
This is in the last week I think.

Participant - Last week.
Last week.

Interviewer - Yes, it is. It's in big bold letters. I wish I could read, OK.

Participant - Me too.

Interviewer - So the scale for the first one is from numbers 1 to 7. Number 1 is a strong disagreement. 7 is a strong agreement. 4 is neutral.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So.
If, if you were to be asked if you were fully able, it would probably be a 1.

Participant -  So one is full agreement, no full disagreement.

Interviewer - As like a full disagreement.

Participant - Yeah. OK.

Interviewer - So it's like how much you-you agree or like the thing?

Participant - With 4 being neutral...

Interviewer - So yes, so...
During the past week I have found that my motivation is lower when I am fatigued.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7.
Exercise brings on my fatigue.

Participant - I don't think I've exercised in the last week so 4.

Interviewer - 4.
I am easily fatigued.

Participant - 6.

Interviewer - 6.
Fatigue interferes with my physical functioning.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Right question 5. Fatigue causes frequent problems for me.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7.

Participant - Yep.

Interviewer - My fatigue prevents sustained physical functioning.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7. Fatigue interferes with carrying out certain duties and responsibilities.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7. Fatigue is among my three most disabling symptoms.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7. And-

Participant - Oh, hang on. Yeah. No, we're sticking to seven.

Interviewer - Yep, happy?

Participant - I just remembered the disabilities, but I've considered them now. Still 7.

Interviewer - OK, good good. Fatigue interferes with my work family or social life.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Thank you very much.
OK, so this next one is it's called the Epworth Sleepiness Scale, which is a lovely name.

Participant - That is.

Interviewer - Each item is rated from 0 to 3 with 0, meaning you would never doze or fall asl-doze or fall asleep in the given situation.
1 meaning that you have a slight chance of dozing, 2 meaning you have a moderate chance and 3 meaning there is a very high chance that you would dose or fall asleep.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So how likely are you to doze or fall asleep in contrast to just feeling tired?
Umm.

Interviewer - Even if you haven't done any of these activities recently, think about how they would have affected you.
This is quite a relatively old survey. Some of these activities are quite amusing and especially the way that they're put, so please keep in mind I did not write this.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So yes, this is like a general thing. It's not over a week or a month. It's a general vibe check, I guess.

Participant - Gotcha.

Interviewer - Right situation #1, sitting and reading from 0 to 3.

Participant - 3, yeah.

Interviewer - 3, watching TV.

Interviewer - Also, a 3. Sitting inactive in a public place, for example a theatre or a meeting.

Participant - A very solid 0 from me.

Interviewer - Very solid 0.
As a passenger in a car for an hour without a brake.

Participant - 1.

Interviewer - 1.
Lying down to rest in the afternoon.

Participant - 3.

Interviewer - 3.
I've accidentally hit the enter key at the same time. Oops. Sitting and talking to someone.

Participant - I guess it's situational, but 1.

Interviewer - 1.
Sitting quietly after lunch brackets when you've had no alcohol.

Participant - 2.

Interviewer - 2, and in a car while stopped in traffic.

Participant - I assume not as the drive- I can't drive, so that's a moo-.

Interviewer - I-I would assume not as the driver correct if the driver was falling asleep, that would be bad.

Participant - Yeah, 2.

Interviewer - 2.
OK, lovely. Lovely. That is all of the surveys done.
Wordiness is not over. I'll apologise for that in advance, but that is the weird scale over. Do you want a pacing break or anything?

Participant - I am OK, but I'm equally happy to take one if you need one.

Interviewer - OK, I'm good. I'll just have a nap after this.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - And I hope it doesn't turn into a 10 hour sleep because that would ruin me.

Participant - Yeah!

Interviewer - OK.
Where is it gone? It's here somewhere.
Interview materials, interview guide. It wasn't here somewhere I forgot to open that. Lovely.
Come on, Microsoft Word.
You're so much worse than LibreOffice, but you can do it eventually.
There we go.
Right, so this is 20 questions. It's kind of split into subcategories. So questions will tend to lead on from each other. Some of them, I'll only ask if I...if you have explicitly mentioned something in a previous question or if I read between the lines and reckon it's applicable.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - If I read between the lines I will check I will ask and say...hi, does this sound about right? If so this question.

Participant - Gotcha.

Interviewer - Again, take as much time as you need. Circle back stuff if you want. This is entirely wordy. Feel free to say stories and talk as much as you want in whatever way that you want. It's not just the answer, but how it's given is valuable as well.
So don't like I had one, one participant who was kind of trying to. He started off trying to phrase it like he was talking to a doctor. And I'm like, no, that's the opposite of what I want. Please.

Participant - I hear you.

Interviewer - So yeah, if you're ready?

Participant - I'm ready.

Interviewer - What chronic mobility conditions do you have?

Participant - Fibromyalgia.

Interviewer - Does-does that have fatigue as a as a symptom and comorbidity and the like?

Participant - So fibromyalgia is characterised by the chronic pain. Fatigue is a very common secondary symptom as well as so minor pain, fatigue, nausea and cognitive fog. But that kind of comes from the pain in the fatigue, you know so.

Interviewer - Uh-huh.

Participant - And dizziness. But there are like 400 associated comorbidities with fibromyalgia because it's one of these diagnosis of, well, you've got something wrong with you disorder.

Interviewer - Kind of long COVID, everyone's just slightly different.

Participant - Yeah.
Yeah, and no one really knows what causes it, and that's a weird kind of pain because it's... no one truly understands, you know, I guess neurological pains. So, yeah, if I would I...
My experience of fatigue is such that for a while I wondered if I also had chronic fatigue syndrome because I was experiencing fatigue a lot more than other people. I was like talking to who had fibro, but I don't think I experienced the like post exertional...

Interviewer - Malaise?

Participant - That's the one. Yeah. I mean, obviously, after I exert myself, I'm I, my recovery is going to be a lot rougher than it would be if I wasn't disabled, but it's not quite the same. I don't think. I think it's just that I'm running from a much smaller tank and I'm in pain all the time. And that's exhausting as well.

Interviewer - OK, you've answered question 2 in doing that, I just kind of needed you to say you experienced fatigue because that is what the study is about. But in the process you've answered, can you describe to me the symptoms of this condition that you experience? So question 3, can you give me examples of activities this condition has prevented you being able to do?

Participant - Yeah, I used to hike like most days and now sometimes I can't get out of bed. I will never hike. I can walk, and I can fortunately live. I know you know this, but for the sake of getting a quote, I fortunately live in rural Wales right next to the sea. So.
I still have some access to the natural world, but I can't...shortly before....
I got as unwell as I am now, I went on a 12 mile hike. That's like never gonna happen again. But then wait...
Working is quite a salient one. I-I haven't figured out a way to work with the fatigue that I now experience yet, it's... I may not complete the masters that I started depending on if they ever get back to me about my resit because...
The fatigue messed me up and the pain, but the fatigue messed me up for three weeks, which is really it turns out, and not being able to do anything for three weeks. Not good for dissertation. Who'd have thought?
I would say...
It's prevented me fully from doing a lot of things, but because I've-I've experienced the fatigue for seven years, I've experienced the fatigue in the way that I experienced it now for only a year and a half there was a I had a very stressful period a year and a half ago in that...
Turned it from fibre that I could ignore and pretend I wasn't chronically. I'll it just meant I had to sleep for 12 hours at least once a week to oh, everything's different now. And so I'm still in the process of learning what I now can't do, but I'm also still in the process of learning...What can I do to adapt to make things that I used to love possible for me again?

Interviewer - OK, perfect. Thank you very much.
When is the earliest incidents you can recall of your condition inhibiting your mobility?

Participant - In 2018 to 2000-early-19, which is when it did initially start, there were what I now know was flare ups during a flare up of fibromyalgia. It will often be flu like symptoms. So I mean I get fatigue all the time. But like the fatigue you get when you have the flu and it's combined, it's a different fatigue. It's a heavier fatigue somehow, and I would experience that...
Once every month, once every two months, and I remember that was really difficult because I I just thought I was getting the flu all the time, to be honest. I was like, wow, this is improbable! But that, like, I think it was mostly social events and uni stuff. Not that I was doing a lot of uni back then, but that's for other reasons.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK.
OK, so you said explicitly, no PE-PEM, but you also said recoveries are rough, would you describe that as extended exhaustion?

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - OK. Can you give me examples of extended exhaustion after an activity please?

Participant - What day are we on, Wednesday? On Monday, I went to the beach with two friends for a religious observation. We spent the whole time like sat down, you know, sang some songs it wasn't...
A massively physically exerting thing and then yesterday I left my bed once because...
I had muscle fatigue, I guess so I feel like this fatigue, my experience of fatigue at least, and I don't know the science and I don't know the medicine, medical understanding, but my experience, my own fatigue is that there's the sort of generalised fatigue which is kind of like sleepiness, but it's more than sleepiness...
Which I experienced to some degree all the time, but then muscle fatigue, which is kind of like a pain but it's not, but it is. Eloquent, and I'm more likely to experience that in addition to a higher levels of generalised fatigue...
After exerting and that's what I would consider a period of extended exhaustion. It wasn't that extended because I'm not in bed today like I'm talking now, but it certainly did last, like probably 30 hours.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of brain fog inhibiting activities?

Participant - Yeah.....

Interviewer - Yeah?

Participant - Right now, but more usefully for you, possibly... Oh my God... Ha ha!
Often when I...
Try and do anything that requires following a trade of thought for more than 30 seconds whilst also standing up, especially so that would be like most things, but it's particularly I-I literally can't think of an example because I'm experiencing it now.

Interviewer - Uh-huh.

Participant - Sorry.

Interviewer - No, that's fine. Everyone has struggled to answer that question, which I think is just proof of pudding.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - So yeah, that's-that's not unusual at all and not a problem because funnily enough, giving people a question where they need to think and remember when they have memory issues and cognitive issues never tends to go well.

Participant - No, no. I imagine it wouldn't cursed by your own work there, I suspect.

Interviewer - The joys of having to ask things in a particular way because of academia. Question 7, can you give me examples of disruptions to your sleep schedule making your other symptoms worse? I ask this because I know you as a person.

Participant - So interestingly, I haven't been an insomniac for about two years and it-

Interviewer - Oh, lovely!

Participant - ...yeah! I still will have an occasional night of insomnia and that will make my fatigue much worse. But it's so rare.
Umm.
They're a combination of medication and acquiring a routine for a while, so that's actually not.

Interviewer - OK.
I'm-I'm very happy to hear that that question is actually not applicable at all.

Participant - Thank you.

Interviewer - Apologies for the assumption, but you know.

Participant - We nah, we lived together. You... That's a fair assumption.

Interviewer - What app or device do you currently use for this conditions and when did you start using them?

Participant - Guava, like the fruit and which isn't an app. I don't think it's called guava like the fruit. I think it's just called guava. I just wasn't sure if I'd pronounced that right. It's...it can be a link to-to all of your smart devices and stuff. I don't have any of those because I'm broke. So it was...
I have an iPhone and that will automatically count your steps and some other stuff, and I use the data from that and then I also manually I would tell you exactly which symptoms, but I've actually lost my phone right now so-so I can't.
But I would manually put in a few times a day.
Let's score out from 0 to 10 for fatigue.
Pain and other symptoms.

Interviewer - OK. That is that along, as a result of or in tandem with the NHS advice of an activity diary?

Participant - I'm inspired by but not result of or in tandem with it's... I've been going about. I've gone through. I'm going through the whole process of having been diagnosed now. Please will you give me some...

Interviewer - Something.

Participant - Anything. Yeah. So I was keeping it, so I hadn't been asked for that, but I knew I might be. And also I am comforted by having as much information as I can about a situation. So when there's something as nebulous as, oh, chronic illness that I don't understand and neither do the doctors taking my own data on it was as well as having like, oh, it's literally helpful because of all the reasons that having the data is helpful. It was also psychologically helpful because it made me feel like I had a little bit more, not necessarily control, but at least knowledge of what was happening.

Interviewer - OK. Just as an aside, would you be willing to volunteer 10 screenshots, pictures, whatever of said to diary at the end of the study?

Participant - If I can find my phone, which for both of our sakes I hope so then yes.

Interviewer - Yeah.
Yep. OK, that's. I mean you can you can submit it as late afterwards as you want as long as it's not like 3 months, which I hope you don't lose your phone for that long.

Participant - Me too.

Interviewer - OK. Have you used any previous tools before guava?

Participant - Umm.
No, I think I kept intending to, but I never got around to it.

Interviewer - OK.
How do you use this device or application? If you feel you've already answered this, then just say that.

Participant - I think I answered it. The main in terms of use because so many of the numbers that I was putting in were self-described rather than, as opposed to something being measured like my heart rate or my blood pressure or something like that.
I think it's well, well known amongst chronically ill people that if someone says describe your fatigue from 1 to 10 or describe your pain or describe your anything from 1 to 10, especially if you're neurodivergent, which I am, that's difficult because it's not an objective scale and the worst pain you can ever imagine is going to be different on different days. It's like the oh...say breaking your leg is the worst pain you've ever experienced. Well, I could break both my legs and that would be even worse. So is that a 10 or is that a what, a 5? I digressed, sorry, so I...A lot of the actual use of the app and putting the numbers in was sort of the reckoning of trying to make it as objective as possible to make the data useful.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - To what degree I've managed that I don't know. I change my mind on it every day as to how I consider my own self reported data.

Interviewer - OK.
So it's used more as a self recording platform than a hard data recording platform.

Participant - For now, yeah. Although I'd love to get, like a... smart measuring device for things like blood pressure and heart rate, because again, I'm aware this is very common among chronically ill people. But because Fibromyalgia is a diagnosis of exclusion...

Interviewer - Mm-hmm.

Participant - ...it's not impossible that something else is amiss.

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - So it's and the NH- I'm grateful to have an NHS, but it is underfunded and it they-they do not have a lot of time. So anything that puts the not the power of diagnosis, I don't have that, nor do I want it, but the power of figuring out what the hell is going on.
Anything puts that a little bit more in my hands. Is good for me in my opinion.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. When do you use the device or application?

Participant -  I try and use it every morning and every evening at least realistically, that is not always the case, because sometimes I forget about it for days at a time, which makes it less useful. But.
That is what it is.

Interviewer - OK, just because I don't know much about this particular application is that outside of its intent or is that part of what it was designed for?

Participant - As in my use or when I use it.

Interviewer - Both.

Participant - I think I broadly use it within its intent. It has options for, I mean it's also got a premium level that I haven't looked at because I'm not giving them my money. But within the free features, it's got other features like the ability to link up other devices. It-one thing that-It is-I think it is intended for....
It's not just intended for inputting the data, it's intended for the data being used by the patient themselves. There are exports for to show doctors and stuff, but they are also it has a really well equipped interface for visual data visualisation for the data that you're putting in and for example, you can compare two factors like pain score and fatigue score for example, and it will do things like figure out the P value for you and that kind of thing. And I realise that, I mean I-I'm a statistics nerd, so...I will export the data and play with it myself. The majority of the world do not care about a P value, so it's clearly that it's being designed. It's clear to me that it's designed to allow people to look at their own data and make reasonable...decisions or observations from it. But if whether I think it is supposed to be used every day with on a degree of regularity, and it has a function for setting a reminder that I ignore mostly.

Interviewer - OK.
OK, so I think you've answered this question. If you've got anything to add to it, just say how frequently do you use the application?

Participant - Yeah, I feel like I've answered that.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK, good. Good. Can you give me examples of activities that caused your decision to use the device or application?

Participant - So if...
I experience chronic fatigue syndrome as opposed to just chronic fatigue with the...
Post...

Interviewer - Exertional malaise?

Participant - Thank you. With the post exertional malaise, then that means that I should not exercise as much or possibly at all, because exercise can trigger that and exercise is not helpful. If it is just fibromyalgia with a strong fatigue component, exercise will improve my...condition.
That... wanting to know whether or not I should be exercising and getting an idea of how much I should exercise...
I guess it was not an activity that triggered the use of the thing, but it was an urge for an activity.

Interviewer - So..Is there an example of an activity before you started using it? That kind of embodied that decision making, or was it more a general...

Participant - Umm.

Interviewer - ...generalised decision?

Participant - I think it was probably...
I mean the activity that I do the most that...
Is the most likely to have caused it is just going for a walk, a little walk. It was almost certainly that because that is also when I do my thinking, but I imagine that is the case of it being a combination of a lot of things rather than one specific activity. But if it was an activity, it would have almost certainly been walking.

Interviewer - OK. And that was a daily walk, right? If I'm remember?

Participant - Yeah, well, not daily, but as daily as I can get.

Interviewer - Yeah, daily in the context of someone who's not fully able.

Participant - Yeah, yeah.

Interviewer - OK. Perfect. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of times that device or application alerted you to over exertion?

Participant - No, because I've not got that set up, but I would like to have that set up.

Interviewer - I will clarify, this isn't just a live alert, but for example you get to the end of the day, look back on-on your data, and go oh wow, I did way too much. That will count.

Participant - Oh, right. Well, yeah. So the step count is obviously...step count isn't a massively useful signify for everything, but if I...
I look at my step count and I've walked 8000 steps. I will get out the Epsom salts, you know, and make sure that I don't have any plans the following day or the following three days.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - Umm.
I can't think of a specific time it's happened, but I know it's happened. It just has happened quite a few times, so it's all sort of blended into one.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK, perfect. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities you started after using the device or application?

Participant - Yes, I can. There's a weekly in [town], which is a town like 5 to 10 miles away from where I live. Ish.
How do I put this?
It's a weekly sober rave. I guess it's like an ecstatic dance thing that's relevant because part of the practise of ecstatic dancing is about mind, body connection and feeling your body's limits as well as what your body can do.
I think for a lot of the majority of the people that do this are like hippies in their 40s. So for a lot of them, I think it's about reminding them what their body can do. For me, it's more about reminding myself of my boundaries in quite a healthy way. Before I started really tracking my symptoms...and...trying to become more familiar with them, I-I was becoming very afraid to do any. I mean, I experienced agoraphobia anyway for unrelated reasons, but it was being made much worse by the fear of what if I go for a walk and then the fatigue is too much and I collapse and I can't.
If you're Googling that, that is fear. It's a fear, like anxiety about leaving the house.

Interviewer - OK.
Right. Yes, thank you.

Participant - Sorry, I would have...

Interviewer - No, no, no, it's fine. It's fine.

Participant - And before I was tracking my symptoms and felt that I had a better idea of what was going on and where my fatigue was coming from, what was causing it, I was becoming just terrified to do absolutely anything because what if that triggers a flare up?
Umm.
And so I wasn't doing...
I wasn't moving the body very much and then I think because of using the app and tracking my symptoms and even like I still don't really know what's going on, but at least I've learnt to be more aware of it, it empowers me to do things like even if I go to both and I'm like well actually it's time to sit down and watch these hippies spin around...
Umm...
It's something that wouldn't have done before.

Interviewer - Hmm.
Yeah. OK, perfect. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of regular activities you stopped participating in as a result of using the device or application? Don't know how relevant this is given fibro if-if it is just fibro, but...

Participant - Umm...I...
I think it stopped me from oh, wait, now that's starting. I at one point I was using it in combination with, I wasn't like counting calories or anything, But like a general tracking of nutrition...
to...
but...
I'm just not very good at that anyway. But I was like trying to cut out excess caffeine and all the rest of it, but I don't know if that's to do with the app that I failed to do that or to do with the fact that cutting out caffeine is...
Yeah...
Well, it's not something I've ever truly succeeded at.
Yeah.

Interviewer - OK, out of interest, because diet trackers, we are counting them as health devices. Did you use that particular tracking method in relation to the condition at all?

Participant - No, it I. It was literally. Did I eat a meal today?

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - It wasn't more specific than that.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. Thank you very much.
Can you give me examples of activities you might have started were you not using the device or application?

Participant - I don't think so.
I'm not. I might have started if I wasn't using it, no.

Interviewer -Yes.
Things, things you would have tried had you not had whatever relationship you have with your application.

Participant - Writing it down in a notebook, no writing it down in a spreadsheet.

Interviewer - So...

Participant - I'd like I what I would have done if I had not got this app is I would have built myself a spreadsheet, probably to score a very system, similar system to the app. I would have also acquired exports of the native Apple health, so that's again foot count and. Foot count? I don't think that's what it is. I have two of those. Step count.
Pretty much step count.
And combined it and tried to calculate those P values myself. So I probably would have done exactly the same thing but with way more effort.

Interviewer - OK so.
To uh...
OK, so this question is meant to be...
Things you would have started if you didn't have access to the data, but I suppose this doesn't apply to you because you would have had the access to the data somehow just in a more exert- in a way that causes more exertion.

Participant -And is that which is very relevant to chronic illness 'cause it just, I wouldn't have been able to keep up with because of that, so.

Interviewer - Yeah.
So compared to other people, this isn't a data collecting advantage. This is a time saver.

Participant - Yeah, but I may not be. I'm aware that perhaps as a former data scientist and a current nerd, I'm possibly not necessarily representative of the general population for that one.

Interviewer - OK.
No, that's fine.
OK. Thank you very much.
The last of the proper questions, there's a couple of speculative ones after this, but the last of the proper ones. Can you give me examples of events that demonstrate your decision to choose this device?
And I suppose I'll add on all data collection methods, seeing as you would have been doing the method anyway.

Participant - Yeah. Umm...Can you read the first part of the question again> Sorry.

Interviewer - Can you give me examples of events that demonstrate your decision?

Participant - Yeah. OK. So the sorry, I've just seen a bead on the floor and I want to pick that before it gets lost forever. I...
How do I explain this?
My friend runs a day long event once a year, for which I am often a volunteer at the door and also a performer.

Interviewer - Mm-hmm.

Participant - Whether or not I can physically do that depends very, very much on my ability to pace, like pace myself through the day, and also like, I mean there are other factors, but pacing is the biggest and most relevant factor.
Umm.
Without.
So I the last [event] was before I started using the app.
While I certainly made it to the end of the day and...
It really messed me up quite badly, but I don't regret it 'cause it was a really...
Great event, but it did make me think like were there ways that I can handle this better? Because I did pace myself as best I could, but I didn't really have the knowledge of the best way to do that. I didn't know what it is that exerts me and I also for me a lot of the value of the practise of data collection, especially the self reporting that I do is the fact that it forces me...to...
Look at my body. It's like, not physically, but you know, oh, how fatigued am I? How much pain am I in? And then that does sort of naturally lead to...
And therefore, what can I do or what do I need to do to mitigate things and that kind of thing? So the last [event] that I went to really messed me up, I experienced a period of extended exhaustion, but not for 30 hours for like 3 weeks.
Umm.
And it was kind of a case of like, well, I want to be able to do things like that, especially performing, because that's really personally important to me. It's just not something...
That I can comfortably do in the way I used to be able to, so the use of that that is an event, an event, that sort of triggered... How can I learn to get better at this, which eventually turned into well, collecting data is something that will get me to know more. I didn't expect it to be as beneficial in the act of collecting data I thought it would just be the data that was useful.
To me, but the act of collecting it has also been very useful. I don't know if that actually answered your question. I got a little bit...

Interviewer - OK. No, that's fine. So you almost don't have examples of events after you're starting to use it, because the events that are relevant have reduced because you are using it.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Would it be fair to say?

Participant - Yeah. Yeah, definitely, yeah.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. Thank you very much.
Before we get on to the speculative thingies, is there anything that you have remembered or anything you would like to circle back to. To give a quick recap the first section, 7 questions was about your condition and kind of a, a recap or a, a demonstration of that.

Participant - Hmm.

Interviewer - Questions 8 to 11 were exactly the same, but about your device and how you use it, and then questions seven questions 12 to 17 were combining those two and giving examples of how these two things interact. So if there's anything you'd like to circle back to or mention?

Participant - Yeah.
The only thing I've thought of is that so some of the symptoms I'm aware that some of the symptoms and the reporting of the symptoms, the symptoms cause the reporting of the symptoms to be biased. And what I mean by that, as an example, is if I am experiencing a lot of cognitive fog...Like a lot of cognitive fog, I am very unlikely to bring out my phone and open up my app and put oh, I'm experiencing a 10 out of 10 of cognitive fog. Now, I might remember to do that like after the fact, probably won't though.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - And that means that the numbers the data I have for my cognitive fog is incomplete because when my cognitive fog is at its worst, I'm not putting that in, and that's not a huge problem for me because I'm aware of it and I like to think of the statistics, but it is something that I'm very aware of and I don't know if that's entirely relevant, but it might have been. So I said it anyway.

Interviewer - So to come up with an improvised question that is at risk of being too direct.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - As my supervisor says, get them to answer the question without asking it. That's quite difficult.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Would you...say that given this device isn't designed for the people with fatigue, the design of it does not...aid...those with, with cognitive fog. So the incentive to use the device to record cognitive fog is lessened because of the design of the device or the application and the UI and all of that.

Participant - I think that...
Yes, but with the caveat that although the incentive, the incentive to use it is less, I don't think...That makes it-It does make it somewhat less valuable because I just said it's an incomplete data set, an incomplete data set will always be less valuable than a complete data set. Obviously, but I don't think that it completely shrinks the value down. I do think there is still a lot of value, especially if you're aware of it, but equally I don't know of any sensors that will objectively measure my fatigue, and if I did, and I could afford it, I would wear one because I would much prefer to be measuring it in an objective way. Oh, cognitive, we're talking about cognitive fog, but those two things often come hand in hand for me anyway, with why I'm conflating them a lot.

Interviewer - OK.
Yeah.
I will say that the, the three surveys beforehand, one was meant to measure both mental and physical fatigue, and one was split into two parts, one was mental and one was physical. So when we're, we're talking about fatigue in this study, it's not just physical fatigue, but also cognitive fog, and having that battery, that fuel tank that you have used up by doing something like this, which for me isn't physically taxing, but I will need a rest after this because of how mentally...fatiguing it is.

Participant - Yeah, I mean, it'd do the same thing to me. I find it really hard to tell the difference between mental and physical fatigue. I don't know if I just happen to feel them at the same time. A lot of the time, or if it's what's the word, not proprioception. That's a different thing. The autistic trait of not knowing what the hell you're feeling.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - And you're experiencing inside your body. I think probably does alter my own perception of my own fatigue.

Interviewer - Yeah. Yeah. OK.
Right after a question that turned into four questions, the last three questions, what form would your ideal device or application take?

Participant - Ideally it would be a wearable devi- would be a wearable device that can measure as much as it can measure. I don't know heart rate, blood pressure might be nice. In a magical world, it's going to measure my fatigue like I just said, but I'm aware that physics...And current medical understanding makes that a bit difficult. That would connect...to, I mean, I do like the app as an interface with self reporting, but it's also personally really important to me...for it to be data that is held on your device, not in the cloud. Or at least you have the option to do that. Data that you have access to data that you can export that is exportable in a format like CSV that isn't a format private to the app, that kind of thing. The data itself is a very big concern to me because.
I care about data.

Interviewer - Yeah, you're a data scientist.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Yeah, OK question 19, what functions would you remove from your current or... current device or devices you have used or know about?

Participant - I don't think any. I think as many it's nice to have the options for the functions that they have. I wish there weren't functions hidden behind a paywall, but that's not a problem with the app. That's a capitalism thing.

Interviewer - OK. And the last question, what functions would you add? You've touched on this a little bit more.

Participant - To be honest, I'm very happy with the app I use in its data export functions and all the rest of it. But in terms of import, yeah, I would like, in an ideal world, there to be ways to either make self reporting more objective. I've no idea if that's possible or...
There to be ways of sensing with a mechanical sensor. I suppose it would be an electric sensor, not a mechanical sensor. A mechanism that measures it.

Interviewer - Hmm.
OK. Yeah. So it's...Having additional options that aren't geared towards fitness.

Participant - Yeah. Yeah, I think that's the core of it. It is very frustrating as a chronically ill person to hear from your doctors and your physiotherapists. Not that that's oddly specific and everyone that it's all about fitness. When I think for a lot of us it's about survival.
And any tool or technology that we use, I think it's nice if it reflects that not in a OK maybe it reflecting survival might be a bit drastic but like...
It's nice for our tools to be reflective of our lives rather than reflective of the ideal that we're all supposed to be trying to live to the if we're using these apps, we probably can't.

Interviewer - OK, wonderful. Thank you very much. If-if there's anything else you'd like to add?

Participant - Don't think so.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. I'll just stop the recording.
