Interviewer - Right. Number 1 is called the CFQ. This is in the last month compared to your baseline.

Participant - Right. OK.

Interviewer - So like as a gut feel, how has the last month been? So your options are better than usual, worse than usual... sorry. Better than usual, no worse than usual, worse than usual, or much worse than usual.

Interviewer - So to simplify that better, no worse, worse, or much worse.

Participant - Worse. Yeah worse.

Interviewer - If you want... I'm going to... I'm going to put these text options in the chat if you can respond to each question with these options.

Participant - Oh, OK.

Interviewer - There it is so.

Participant - OK, cool. Yeah. Thank you.

Interviewer - Just for your reference, it's 11 questions using the scale.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So question number one, do you have problems with tiredness?

Participant - Yes. Sorry. So you want better?

Interviewer - Better?

Participant - Worse, worse. Sorry.

Interviewer - Worse. OK, so no problem.

Participant - Sorry. I was just... I'm being really thick. I'll catch on.

Interviewer - There's no such thing as thick when we've all got brain fog. OK, so that's worse, yes?

Participant - Yes. Yeah, I have not had a good month.

Interviewer - OK, do you need to rest more?

Participant - Yes, but yeah, so how does that...?

Interviewer - Worse or much worse?

Participant - Worse, yeah.

Interviewer - Yeah. Do you feel sleepy or drowsy? Again, better, no worse, worse, much worse.

Participant - Worse, I think.

Interviewer - Worse. Do you have problems starting things.

Participant - Worse, yeah.

Interviewer - Worse. Do you lack energy?

Participant - Worse.

Interviewer - Worse. Do you have less-

Participant - I've had a conveniently s**t month for you.

Interviewer - Yeah! No such thing, no such thing. It's just numbers. Do you have less strength in your muscles?

Participant - Yeah, worse.

Interviewer - Worse. Do you feel weak?

Participant - Worse.

Interviewer - Do you have difficulties concentrating?

Participant - It's about the same as usual. So where does...yeah.

Interviewer - No worse?

Participant - No worse, yeah.

Interviewer - Better, no worse, worse or much worse.

Participant - Yeah, no worse thanks.

Interviewer - Yeah, no worse. Do you make slip of the tongue when speaking?

Participant - No worse.

Interviewer - No worse. Do you find it more difficult to find the right word?

Participant - Yeah, worse.

Interviewer - Worse. How is your memory?

Participant - Worse, in fact, let's go with much worse, because they've all been ridiculing me for how bad my memory has been in this last couple of weeks.

Interviewer - Much worse. That's not very good.

Participant - No, no, it's not like you teased all the time.

Interviewer - We, we don't like that.
Right. So that's the first of three.

Participant - Cool.

Interviewer - The next one just numbers. No, no thinking about words. Statements from one to seven.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - 1 is disagree, 7 is agree, 4 is your middle point of ambivalent, don't care, neutral, etcetera.

Participant - Right.

Interviewer - So this is the past week.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So during the past week, I have found that my- my motivation is lower when I am fatigued. 1 to disagree 7 to agree 4 to neutral.

Participant - 2.

Interviewer - Exercise brings on my fatigue.

Participant - Oh, that's very true. Whatever the top one of that is.

Interviewer - Seven for a full agree, yes.

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - OK, I am easily fatigued.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7 fatigue interferes with my physical functioning.

Participant - Yeah, 7.

Interviewer - 7. Fatigue causes frequent problems for me.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7 my fatigue prevents sustained physical functioning.

Participant - Yeah, 7-hundred.

Interviewer - Seven, and fatigue interferes with carrying out certain duties and responsibilities.

Participant - Yeah, 7 again.

Interviewer - 7. Fatigue is among my three most disabling symptoms.

Participant - Yeah, 7.

Interviewer - Seven, and fatigue interferes with my work, family or social life.

Participant - Yeah. Just everything seven. Yeah.

Interviewer - Yeah, again, don't think about it too much. It's not...it's it's just a reference compared to what you'll talk about.

Participant - Oh.
OK.

Interviewer - So the numbers on their own don't-don't mean much. So this is around sleepiness, doziness.

Participant - OK.

So it's how likely you are to fall asleep in the following situations.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - Zero is you wouldn't, one is small chance, two is moderate chance and three is high chance. So it's a zero to three range of how much you agree with your chance of falling...falling asleep. I did not come up with these situations. Some of them are a little bit quirky and a little bit outdated.

Participant - OK.
It's going to be like the sleep apnea one, isn't it? Yeah. OK.

Interviewer - So...
So #1, sitting and reading again, zero to three.

Participant - 2.

Interviewer - 2. Watching TV.

Participant - 1.

Interviewer - 1. Sitting inactive in a public place, for example, a theatre or a meeting.

Participant - Errr, so interesting is something let's go one. But if it was really boring, definitely.

Interviewer - One.
I think that goes for anyone to be fair. As a passenger in a car for an hour without a brake.

Participant - Yeah, 2.

Interviewer - Two. Lying down to rest in the afternoon.

Participant - 2, errr, 3 actually, if I tried to yeah 3.

Interviewer - Three and sitting and talking to someone.

Participant - No, 0.

Interviewer - 0. Sitting quietly after lunch, brackets when you've had no alcohol.

Participant - 2.

Interviewer - 2. And in a car, while stopped in traffic.

Participant - 1.

Interviewer - 1.
OK. Thank you very much. Right. That's your little surveys done. Yeah, I quite like the when you've had no alcohol one, just, just to make sure you know.

Participant - Yeah.
Yeah, if you're paralytic, obviously it's a 3.

Interviewer - OK, so that's done.
OK, so now we have the main bit, the big bit.

Participant - Okie.

Interviewer - So again, if you want to loop around to something before if you've forgotten something, or if it's something that you've already mentioned, no worries. If it's something you've already mentioned, just say I said this back in....or I've said this before, if you can't remember when. If you forget something, just give a rough description of when you think it should have been said, and then just explain what you want.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - By all means, feel free to interrupt. So.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - It's kind of split into three bits. The first bit is about condition, the second bit is about device. The third bit is those two things together.

Participant - Right.

And then the last bit is like a couple of really speculative questions. So...

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - The first one, what chronic mobility condition or conditions do you have?

Participant - I've got chronic fatigue syndrome.
And I've got functional neurological disorder.

Interviewer - OK, thank you. Can you describe to me the symptoms of these conditions that you experience?

Participant - So I've got severe fatigue, severe constant pain. I've got permanent migraine, the FND effects pretty much anything where your nerves are talking to your brain. My nerves don't talk to my brain properly, so I've got functional vision loss in my left eye.
Functional tinnitus. I walk with a stick in the house and wheelchair or mobility scooter when I leave the house. Oh, I can't feel below my waist either. Those..those nerves just don't talk to my brain anymore, so I can't feel my legs or feet.
And there's bound to be more things that... I can't feel the, I haven't felt the left side of my face for six years. They can't quite work out where that is. I'm just a bit of an all round, dysfunctional mess, really, essentially.

Interviewer - So a short summary is you're losing a lot- you're experiencing a lot of permanent numbness in varying parts of your body, yeah.

Participant - Yeah, but the, and it, pretty much all of it is either numb or agony. It's one or the other. I've, some of the nerves are just turned on permanently, pain on for no apparent reason. It's just a miscommunication between my brain and my nerves.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - Yeah. So yeah, and both of those were started by, caused by viruses, if that helps you at all. I had glandular fever then got post viral fatigue, then chronic fatigue and then 20 odd years after that had another virus that everybody else just had the flu, my body completely fruit looped and then I've had functional neurological disorder ever since then.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities this condition has prevented you being able to do?

Participant - Yeah, I can no longer work. I pretty much stuck in the house most of the time. I mean, it's impacted everything. It impacted being a mum. My kids are growing up now, but they were 7 and 11 when I got ill.
So that was not easy. It affects my mobility. I can't read properly because of the functional vision loss. Also actually I forgot to mention brain fog ironically forgot to mention brain fog, which obviously effects everything you do.

Interviewer - Not the first don't worry about it.

Participant - And then cost of fatigue. So I'll, you know, I'll do my new portion of what everybody else. Well, not everybody else. Every functional person can do, and there's plenty of people like me, but yeah, it basically impacts every area of my life.

Interviewer - OK. When is the earliest instance you can recall of your conditions inhibiting your mobility?

Participant -  So from chronic fatigue syndrome point of view, I was 15.
So that would be let's do some maths, 1991 I think. That's a pretty long time, but then the functional neurological disorder I was 34, so that's 15 years ago.

Interviewer - Uh-huh.
Right. OK.
Do you...were they specific symptoms, sorry. Or was it the general thing?

Participant - So the, the chronic Fatigue syndrome, initially it was fatigue after, because I had glandular fever and then it's sort of getting better that just never really seemed to happen and I used to fall asleep in class at school and they used to send me home.
And in those days, chronic fatigue syndrome wasn't really very understood. It was so-called yuppie flu, and it was all in your head and yadda yadda. So the advice every time you went to the just do as much as you can and being quite a stubborn individual, I literally push myself to breaking point over and over again. But it was definitely the fatigue that came first.
I think if anybody had said, listen to the fatigue, who knows whether I'd have got as ill as I did. But powering through, wasn't there? Yeah, the advice was awful. In those days, I clutched a fever. They told me to gargle with gin. I was 14.

Interviewer - What?

Participant - Yeah. Yeah, gargle with Gin, said the doctor to a 14 year old.

Interviewer -  OK, so as a general statement,

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer -  I think it's fair to say that a lack of proper treatment in the early stages-

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - -may well have made things worse.

Participant - Yes, I think that's a fair statement, yeah.

Interviewer - OK, fair enough, that's that's that's a good...
Good thing to have very clearly stated, but I can draw off of that...

Participant - Yeah, yeah.

Interviewer - ...because telling a 14 year old to gargle gin is insane actually.

Participant - It's not ideal.

Interviewer - I think that's the weirdest thing I've heard so far. OK, so the next three are about symptoms.

Participant - Sure.

Interviewer - You've definitely said one of them, I'm going to check the other two. Extended exhaustion,

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - AKA Post exertional malaise.

Participant - Yeah, definitely.

Interviewer - Yeah, so can you give me examples of extended exhaustion after an activity, please?

Participant - Oh, I have so many shoes rolling. Let's do the most recent thing that I went. We met with [their child] and we went to [seaside town] and sat in a beach hut for three hours. So there was no actual physical activity involved. It was a car journey, and then sitting in a wheelchair in a beach hut and being pushed there and back. So nothing physical but still took three days of bed rest to recover from that because it was so exhausting. So it doesn't take much, unfortunately.

Interviewer - Yeah, OK. Um. I'm just gonna clarify. It's not necessarily just physical exertion.

Participant - No.

Interviewer - Mental exertion also causes fatigue...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - I'm, I'm guessing, yeah?

Participant - Yeah, yeah, good clarification. Well done.

Interviewer - I have to clarify that to myself sometimes.

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - Like yeah, I'll just read. It's fine. It won't do anything.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - And then I wipe myself out for five days anyway.

Participant - Yeah, absolutely.

Interviewer - Question 6. Can you give me examples of brain fog inhibiting your activities? If you can't recall any because of brain fog, that's fine. Just say, you wouldn't be the first.

Participant - My, my son and my husband could talk to you for hours about my brain fog. I constantly... I mean, I could just about remember the lunchtime conversation I had with my son. Where I got three different people confused. I-I it's even worse now that I'm bloody perimenopausal. Because nouns just go.
For some reason, nouns go with perimenopause. I don't know what happens there, so I don't no one's names. Also, the names of no things at all. Some days, just like it's all you know that. What? Who? I don't know.
Blatant confusion, but I can't read because of it, so that's probably... but it definitely impacts conversation and-and recollection. I think that's, you know, you know you don't you don't know.

Interviewer - OK, so-so that that losing of-of words, especially with nouns...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - ...so oh, you know thingy from thingy that does the thing.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - Yeah, yeah, that's exactly it, yeah.

Interviewer - OK so...

Participant - I tend to get lost mid sentence sometimes as well so I apologise if I do that, yeah.

Interviewer - Especially long sentences, yeah.
Forget what the start of the sentence was.

Participant - Yeah, it's like, sorry, what am I talking about?

Yeah. So some of those in the consent thing, some of those really long ones?

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - That's like 3 sentences for an item getting to the end of those is so difficult!
Thank God I've got them written down.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Right, disruptions to your sleep schedule. I'm guessing that happens through pain...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - ...and fatigue and crash out times.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - So can you give me examples of disruptions to your sleep schedule making your other symptoms worse, please?

Participant - Right. So like I say, joy of the perimenopause at the moment as well, so hot flushes. So I will be exhausted all day, lie down to go to sleep. Instantly my body's on fire. So I have a fan on for that. And then the brain that has failed to function all day.
Then starts to work and not want to go to sleep either and also I'm in extreme pain, so even then once I've got off to sleep, the number of times I wake up with either spasming muscles or just extreme agony, and I have to move and reposition to try and get comfortable again. God knows how many times at night, I wake up to do it. It's just so it's you never feel like you've got that full... deep night's sleep, which then obviously you wake up feeling tired every morning. I also have. I don't have sleep apnea, but I have hypernoea.
Which they don't really know why that happens. They think my brain just can't be bothered, always to do breathing in the night, and I have, I have tried to think of the word. I think they just called it disordered breathing. So in the middle of the night, sometimes my, you know when you breathe in, you're-you're sort of your, your body goes out and then when you breathe out, your body shrinks. In my body, in the middle of the night, for no apparent reason, starts doing the opposite of that sometimes. So that then your body has to wake up to correct itself. So when they did the sleep study, they found out I was waking up just to make myself either start breathing again or correct this thing that, because you can't get the air in your body properly. It's a ridiculousness, but it's they think that's all to do with the FND.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - It's. Yeah. Another thing that my brain just can't quite be bothered to do properly.

Interviewer - Quick question, just because I'm doing a quick Google because that's not a thing I've come across before. Do, does the NHS consider hypernoea near under hyperventilation?

Participant - No, it-it-it was the.
The respiratory team that I saw and I've got a CPAP for actually very recently. I've had a problem with my heart, so I'm not currently using the CPAP because it was making my tachycardia worse. But it's yeah. So it's hoping it as in HYPERNOEA. It's a...

Interviewer - OA? OK, I'm trying every variation I can, and according to the NHS website, it doesn't exist. Lovely I guess.

Participant - Oh well, it's on a letter from the NHS that I have somewhere open here.

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - If I can find, if I can find it later on, I'll send you a link.

Interviewer - HYPERPNEA.

Participant - Because of you brain fog, I can't. I can't see. Let me write it down and see if I can see it right there. It's....

Interviewer - Yeah, sorry, sorry for this, but if something is mentioned, I've got to chase it, unfortunately.

Participant - That's alright.
Can't remember if it's hyper as in hypermarket or hypo NEA.

Interviewer - Increasing volume of air taken during breathing.

Participant - No.

Interviewer - OK, so it might be...

Participant - No, it's. I think it'll come under sleep disorders, actually, because it was the, like I say it was the sleep they expected to find sleep apnea. And they found this instead.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - Yeah, I definitely have seen it written down.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - Honestly.

Interviewer - No, it's no problem. Then I'll... I'll spend some time chasing that.
OK.

Participant - Yeah, it's one of the more unusual thing.

Interviewer - Don't you worry about anyhow, sorry?

Participant - It's one of the more unusual ones, I think.

Interviewer - Yeah yeah I mean I think I've had sleep apnea mentioned already but I haven't had this one mentioned at all. It's quite interesting honestly because everyone has this common rock of fatigue in some form and then it's just whatever else they've got going on it's it's.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - It's some quite something to unpick. It's going to be quite a lot of fun.

Participant - Yeah, I think there's a lot of people putting people in boxes based on basic things and they're not really having a clue what's going on with them.

Interviewer - Yeah.

The fact that my daughter, my son and I have all been diagnosed with chronic fatigue syndrome, I, you know, I-I wonder if there's a bit more going on there because you know, it's only supposed to be a 2% chance you passing it on, but both my kids have it, so I think there's something genetic awry, but there you go.

Interviewer - Right. OK. So that's the bit focusing on symptoms and conditions done, unless you've got something you'd like to add.

Participant - No. That sounds good. Yep.

Interviewer -  OK. So shifting onto the devices now, what device or application do you currently use for these conditions and when did you start using it or them?

Participant - So I've got a Fitbit...that [their child] helped me by and the, I've only had it a couple of months. And the reason I got it was because after a virus I got this tachycardia. And so it was to keep an eye on my heart rate, really.
More than anything else.

Interviewer - OK. And that's a couple of months, so this summer?

Participant - Yeah. So beginning of July, the virus started and they reckon the virus either infected or inflamed my heart. And that's what left me with this tachycardia. It's a new one for me. I've had so many viruses, but none of them have ever bothered my heart before.

Interviewer - OK. Have you used anything previously?

Participant - No.

Interviewer - OK, how do you use this device or application?

Participant - Well, to keep an eye on my heart rate, but also it well it's got like a daily readiness score, but I'm not sure how accurate it is. But I tell you what is absolute rubbish is the steps, it's absolute nonsense. I'm physically disabled. I barely walk. I might go to the toilet or back and it's telling me that I've done like 1000 to 2000 steps every day, which is absolute nonsense.

Interviewer - So safe to say you don't use the step counter.

Participant - I do not use the step count. No. I look at the sleep because I find that interesting and how much deep sleep and R.E.M. And whatever you've had is heart rate and for well, I wish the daily readiness score was more useful, but it doesn't seem to be really very accurate, I don't think.

Interviewer - So you kind of, you look at it, but not, don't necessarily put much stock in it. If that's a fair description, yeah. OK.

Participant - Exactly. Yeah, I don't live by it. Yeah, I listen to my body instead.

Interviewer - OK, when do you use this device? Is it all of the time? Is it only at certain times?

Participant - Yeah, all the time. Apart from I take it off the shower because I never believe things when they say they're waterproof.
Not what you've spent money on them. It's not worth it.

Interviewer - So...
Fair enough. Thank you. I suppose question 11 is surpassed because that is how frequently and if the answer is all the time, then the answer is all the time. I'll reword that a little bit though. How frequently do you check it?

Participant - Umm.
I guess I look at it if it feels like my heart rate's going fast.
So in terms of frequency?
Hey, look at it 10 times a day, something like that. To have a little look and see...
What it's doing and I so probably look at my wrists maybe 10 times a day, but then I'm probably looking at the app now that I'm feeling a bit better, probably only two or three times a day, but right at the beginning when it was really bad, I was looking at it much more often.
But now things are settling down. I'm just looking, check, I'm checking in on the sleep and I'm looking what the regular score says and going "Oh, you're having a laugh" and then when it does the steps things every now and again I'll have a look and see what it thinks when I think I've done steps and sometimes it's I'm in bed and like.
"How do you think I've done it? Thought I'd done 89 steps in my sleep the other day."

[connection issue]

Interviewer - Oh, hello. Am I back?

Participant - Yeah, you're back there you are.

Interviewer - Thank you. I don't quite know why that happened. Everything else was working, but there is a storm, so I don't know. Maybe. Maybe teams doesn't like weather.

Participant - Oh.
OK. No. Yeah, it's really blowy here as well.

Interviewer - Yeah, we're about to get a storm, so hopefully my window doesn't leak again, but we'll see.

Participant - Ohhhh.

Interviewer - So you were talking about frequency and you said that you'll check the readiness, the heart rate and sometimes you'll check the steps and...

Participant - Yeah. Oh, yeah. Because it's like at the other day, it said I done 86 steps in my sleep. It's so random.

Interviewer - Sleepwalker?

Participant - It's like, if it-it does this thing where it buzzes on my wrist and says "You've done 2000 steps" and like, well, I'm still lying down. So I'll have a look at when it thinks I've done them. Have a laugh at it which- Stroking the cat, that seems to set it off quite a lot.
So what goes on?

Interviewer - That is not what I've heard of before. That's really good.

Participant - It's really it's totally oversensitive. So it would be nice to someone, the-the I might be pre-empting a later question, but if you were designing it would be nice to have a setting that you could put in the app that you are a disabled person. So it sort of went well. Clearly these aren't steps. Because it just there's no way of turning it off. There's no way of stopping it. And also you have to set these arbitrary targets and about cardio loads. And when you are trying to rest your heart because you've been told not to move, the last thing you want is it going. You should be aiming for 4 to 6 loads today. I'm like, I really, really should not be doing that. So yeah, it's not at all really designed for me. It's designed for someone who wants to get fit. Obviously, I want to get fit.

Interviewer - Wonderful. Absolutely...hang on to that thought we'll get. We'll get back to that.

Participant - Right. OK.

Interviewer - But wonderful as is already. Like I said, out of order doesn't really matter I'll, I'll rewrite and match things up and it'll be wonderful. So that is the basic items device stuff done. So now the really talky stuff about how they interact with each other.

Participant - Right.

Interviewer - Can you give me examples of activities that caused you a decision to use the device or application?

Participant - Sorry, can you say more?

Interviewer - So the...the intent with this question is, can you tell me about one or several occasions before you were using the device that made you think, oh, I need a device, I need something to measure this or I need something to help me with this or I need some data to look at or whatever.

Participant - OK, so I suppose having been told by the doctor that had the tachycardia and needed to keep an eye because the doctor suggested this would be a good idea to keep an eye on my heart rate.
And also I guess the other thing is that [their child] uses one and [they] finds it really useful. So it would, yeah, be if it was accurate the Daily Readiness score would be a really useful thing.
So yeah, I guess that's it. That's really only reason those are the only things that make me think I should get one.

Interviewer - Medical advice, then?

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - Yeah, medical and [child].

Interviewer - Yeah, no problem. Can you give me examples of times the device or application alerted you to over exertion? This doesn't necessarily mean in the moment you can have looked at it and gone "Wow, I did a lot yesterday and that's why I'm feeling bad."

Participant - Uh.
Yeah. See, this is where it gets tricky with the accuracy because it said to me like the other day, he said, oh you've, you've done full cardio workout, you need a rest. And what I'd actually done is walk to the toilet and then put a new towel out and then walked back to the beds and then lay down. But because my heart rate is too high at the moment it considered that to be a full cardio workout, so I geuss... I mean I guess it's handy that it's said, but.
Yeah, doesn't feel like accurate help. If you see what I mean.

Interviewer - So because of your...go on.

Participant - No I was just going to say, I guess what it does is it tells me oh my-my heart's overdoing it and therefore yeah, I take that in [inaudible], and sometimes it's I've got the alert thing on. It tells you when it's gone up, even when you're it's got a setting you can set it so that if you've been still for 10 minutes and you're heart tate goes up unexpectedly, it tells you about that, and that's useful to know from a medical point of view as well.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. So because, because of your baseline increased heart rate, it can react...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - ...In ways they didn't intend it to we'll say, yeah.

Participant - Yeah, yeah.

Interviewer - OK. Can you give me examples of activities you started after using the device or application? If there are none because of your conditions then just say so.

Participant - Yeah.
Yeah. No, I think if anything, it's the opposite. It stops me doing things.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - Which is a good thing because I am very poor at pacing and have been very poor at pacing for three decades, over three decades.

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - So to have the thing go, yeah, you do, your heart's really going. And then you go OK with it. Well, do you need to stop now then don't I? Yeah.

Interviewer - So I mean also in your specific case, I'm going to guess from a social point of view, the initial advice that you had of do as much as you can kind of reinforce that lack of ability to pace.

Participant - Yeah.
Yeah, yeah. And for some reason comes with a huge amount of guilt the second you stop and sort of shame of "Oh, God, why can't I do what everybody else does" and that that so firmly is rooted in 15 year old me. But it's exactly what happens, illogically, every time. I sort of. I'm forced to stop. I get all of those feelings all over again, and it's really hard to reprogram myself. So, yeah, I mean, it helps with that.

Interviewer - Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of regular activities you've stopped participating in as a result of using the device?

Participant - I mean, I guess because my condition I've, regular activity has never really been a thing. So I mean, like I say it's, it's made me notice if I'm doing something and my heart rate goes up. So that makes me stop, but rate from a regular activity point of view don't really have regular activity because I don't really have days that can are consistent enough to have regular activity. Unfortunately.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities you might have started or tried to start? Were you not using the device?

Participant - Umm.
No, I mean, I guess in a general sense, if I look at it and my heart's already too high, I might think well, I'm not even going to try and do whatever it was I was thinking. I can't think of specific examples, sorry.

Interviewer - OK. So it's-it's more...to...Gods, brain fog.

Participant - Yeah, sorry, I'm not doing great at wording.

Interviewer - No, no, there's no problem at all. It stops you from doing what are daily regular required things when you are in no shape to do them.

Participant - Yes

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - Go on, that's the good way of wording it. Well done [Interviewer].

Interviewer - Thank you. We've got there eventually. OK, last of the questions about your device and what you were... and your condition. Can you give me examples of events that demonstrate your decision to choose this device. So stuff that after you started using it, that made you go, "Oh yeah, I'm happy I'm using this."

Participant - Yeah. So I guess when I when I've had incidents of tachycardia, I can see on my wrist rather than just thinking, "Oh God, I feel weird. Why is that happening?" I've got it gives me solid information about why I feel like that.
And that's really helpful. And yeah, and then to be able to look at the graphs and go, oh, no, look, you're really high today. Just lie still and don't do anything else. Whereas when I had a, II had a very brief period between.
This and then I got [inaudible] on antibiotics that I had like 3 days and I thought, oh, I felt, you know, a bit better. And and I could see on the graph that my resting heart rate was lower than it had been before. So it's good that it sort of confirmed how you feel.
And yeah, no, I am glad I got it from that point of view. I just kind of wish it was more, you know for us rather than encouraging us to go and work out.

Interviewer - Hold on to it. Hold on to it.

Participant - OK, I got you.

Interviewer - Question 18 if that's everything you about your condition in the device that you use? Question 18, what form would your ideal device or application take?

Participant - Well, there you go.

Interviewer - Go on.

Participant - Right. I think from from the point of view of someone who's already chronically ill the last thing they need is their wrist shaming them into, "Oh, you haven't done this", have you? I've-I've managed to turn off now all the prompting to move, because that's the worst possible thing you can do to someone who's got chronic fatigue, but it's all very skewed toward people who want to get fit or build muscle or build their cardio load or whatever, whereas in reality, there's no consideration for pacing and for people like us, pacing is so important, don't you think? "Oh, hang on a minute.
You've done this today. Stop doing anything now" would be far more useful than. "Have you considered your targets?" And yeah, the steps thing is bonkers. It would be really nice to have something that actually counted steps rather than any movement whatsoever at all.
And stroking the cat and yeah.

Interviewer - So in terms of physical form, for example, would you keep it a wrist worn? Would you have it just be an app on the phone or avoiding social fubars like an anklet or something?

Participant - Oh.
Yeah, I mean, I guess it....
Well, that's what, I did wonder about an anklet. Because then at least you'd be more accurate with the steps. Wouldn't you rather than... Yeah, because it has to be somewhere that it will get your heart rate for it to be helpful to me. So I'd have to have something. My body, not just on the phone.
And I'd like that I don't have to put in physical data because you never get a lot of apps where it's you've got to put in everything you've eaten or you've got to put in, whereas at least this just does all the work for me. So from that point of view, that's good.
So I think it would have to be a wearable. It would always be better if it was not so, I don't know if it was flatter because it does sort of... I'm lying on it in my sleep and I have a big imprint in my arm a lot of the time that would be nice if that was avoided.
Maybe anklets not bad idea, although you don't want to look like a prisoner. Get confused there.

Interviewer - That's that's...that's always the thing that comes up whenever anyone suggests it is ah yes the tracking device attached to my ankle. Wait a minute. You look like you've been. You've been tagged and you're on probation or something.

Participant - Yeah.
Actually, while I'm always in the house, people will believe that's actually what happens has happened to me and I'm just going be be be be the second I go outside the radius of my house.

Interviewer - OK. What? Oh, sorry. Go on.

Participant - I'd act-
Now I was just going to say like the whole approach of the app is very fitness and it would be nice if it was more health. I would prefer health angled thing than a... and actually do you know, I think that would probably do most people in the world as much good for it to be health rather than constantly...fitness seems to have got a bit mad.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Question 19, second to last one, what functions would you remove?

Participant - I would remove...All the gym bunny stuff.

Interviewer - If you want to say stuff that you would improve in this as well, then then by all means go for stuff you'd improve, because obviously I think with the step the way the steps works for you, you'd remove it. If it works as it does because it doesn't.

Participant - Yeah, yeah, it's totally counterproductive. My concern is as well because you've got Wes Streeting in the news saying that his big plan for getting people back to work is to give them wearables so they can build up activity. But if he looked at my...Fitbit he'd go well, you shouldn't be getting your pit because you're doing 2000 steps a day. And I was like, I am absolutely not doing 2000 steps a day. That's just nonsense. So if they're planning to judge people based on the input, they're going to have to improve the system. If it's going to be accurate. I just think that whole thing is a...madness. But God yeah, sorry. You're going to have to repeat the question.

Interviewer - Yeah, no problem. What functions would you remove from your device?

Participant - Remove. Remove. Yeah. No, I mean, if you can't fix it...

Interviewer - Or improve.

Participant - Yeah, I would improve the steps or get rid of it, as it is, it's completely useless to me. I would remove...
I would remove a lot of the stuff that's angled towards different type of exercise that aren't helpful. They just make you, I just look at them and go "God. How depressing. I can't do any of those things."
And I'm trying to think of all the, there's loads of settings that I've just turned loads of stuff off. I-I spent the first week that I had it every time something buzzed, thinking "Right, how do I turn it off" because I don't want it telling me to move. I don't want it telling me...
I don't want it telling me anything, I'd like it to take in all the information so that I can look at it when I want to rather than being poked by it. I guess if you get, there are some people have chronic fatigue syndrome or various chronic fatigue things who... just don't try to do anything at all, and I do, do my like my little bit of stretches every day because I think you need to have some movement, but... it's that... maybe I, maybe it's more about my psychology of guilt and shame that I just don't want it guilting or shaming.
Yeah, I mean.

Interviewer - No, that's no problem at all. That's a perfectly valid point of view, to be honest. What functions would you add?

Participant - I mean, I'd love a daily readiness that really looked like how I actually felt.

Interviewer - Or would it be fair, one that explained why it came to the conclusion that it did?

Participant - Yeah, yeah, yeah. That would be more useful. Yeah, because I think that...

Interviewer - 'Cause just sorry, just to clarify the understanding it just gives you a number.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - It doesn't tell you anything about how it came to that.

Participant - No.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - No. It gives you a number and-and it either says moderate or poor or something next to it. It's a one word thing and you think, well, I don't know how you think I'm more poor than I was yesterday because I felt worse yesterday. So it's obviously, I think it's like the baselines are off, I think probably the whole,
baseline is determined by what a healthy person would be, it-that's the thing that would be useful actually was be for you to be able to tell it... if you're like having a heart issue or something to begin with, because judging what is actually your heart malfunctioning and having tachycardia as "Oh, great. You've been to the gym" is really counterproductive.
Yeah.

Interviewer -  Yeah. OK. Is there anything you'd like to add from those three? So I-what form your ideal of device would take, what would you remove and what would you add?

Participant - It feels like adding... I can't think how you do it. There's something more about pacing somehow that was more...
More positive in the same way that it goes "Oh, great. You've done a heavy cardio load." If it went "Oh good for you. You've paced well today." Do you know what I mean? It was that more sort of positive feedback from-from a pacing rather than "Oh, it looks like you haven't done anything today. Let's do more tomorrow", which is very much how it's tilted at the moment. If it was for an ill person, it's far more useful for them to be pacing and for resting to be a positive thing rather than a negative thing.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - Yeah, I think I can't think of anything else at the moment.

Interviewer - OK, no problem. Is there anything from in general from any of the interview or anything else that you'd like to add?

Participant - Can't think of anything. Have I said enough? I don't know that I've been particularly useful to you [Interviewer].

Interviewer - Yeah, don't worry about again, like I'm... I'm not a doctor. Don't. Don't worry about. "Oh, how useful is this?" "How it does this fit into the the academic thing?" Like all faff, ignore it. Just say what you think.

Participant - Yeah.
OK, as long as you're happy, that's the main thing.
Right. If that's everything, I'm going to stop the recording then if you're happy.

Participant - OK.