Interviewer - This is what happens when you get someone with the condition to research the condition.

Participant - Yeah, I can relate a little bit too much to that.

Interviewer - OK, so from the top, what chronic mobility conditions do you have?

Participant - So I've got diagnosed joint hypermobility syndrome and, there is- I do think there is a potential I could have hypermobile ehlers danlos syndrome as well because I hit a lot of the criteria for that. So it means that I've got a connective tissue disorder and... basically all my joints have a really abnormal range of motion, which leads to a lot of different symptoms.

Interviewer - OK. Can you describe to me the symptoms of these conditions that you experience?

Participant - Yeah. So my joints are a lot more bendy than most people, so my range of motion is really strange. Means things bend backwards, whereas they shouldn't too far. So I'm quite injury prone, prone to partial dislocations and complete dislocations, sprains.
A lot of muscle stiffness as well. Pain after exercising or while exercising. Joint fatigue. Struggle with certain movement patterns, poor proprioception and balance. So there's, yeah, there's a lot of things from it.

Interviewer - OK, thank you. And now for the new things, again terribly sorry.

Participant - OK, that's alright.

Interviewer - Can you give me examples of activities, these conditions have prevented you from being able to do?

Participant - Yeah. So one thing I really did want to start doing was running, but I know that's like traditionally something that people with, it's, people struggle with the knees who don't have joint conditions. So there's been a couple of times I've tried it and it just my knees just don't, don't. They're not having any of it.
My knees are probably one of the worst points I have, though that one of the things I struggle with the most so yeah, so anything to do with running anything that involves a lot of flexion in the shoulders as well, because I've had a full shoulder dislocation before, never regained full strength in that.
So at the gym there's a lot of specific exercises like I can't bench press, I can't really shoulder press, pass a certain amount of time because it's start, they try and sublux quite a lot. Yeah. So just quite a few different physical activities, really just general exercise. And there's ones that like I can do. But I have to make modifications to and a lot of gym exercises.
Yeah. So those are the main ones, I'd say.

Interviewer - OK. And when is the earliest instance you can recall of your conditions inhibiting your mobility?

Participant - God, I mean, I've had it since I was, like, forever for my whole life. Like, what I used to treat it like a party trick when I was a kid, which probably didn't really help because I used to be like, "Oh my God, look what my joints can do." I'd say, yeah, to be fair at school because there were some activities at Sports Day that I just find really painful, like anything to do with running. I just wouldn't...really, wouldn't really do, and when we used to do gymnastics classes at school, there were some things I just couldn't do because my arms are to try and pop out.

Interviewer - OK. So it's all based in, in childhood things because obviously this is a lifelong thing.

Participant - Yeah. So the earliest ones were in childhood, definitely, but there's been just random things throughout my life.

Interviewer - OK.
I'm saying this because of the mistake I made and I said brain fog and you, you related to it.

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - So I'm going to ask can you give me examples of brain fog inhibiting your activities?

Participant - Like physical activities or just any kind of activities?

Interviewer - Any activities.

Participant - In general.

Interviewer - Fatigue in, in this case is both mental and physical.

Participant - Yeah, I'd say some of the main ones I've had is that sometimes I just I forget things and I-I just there's been times where I've completely forgotten I've had a meeting or training on a day or I've got a day mixed up and just not known what I'm supposed to be doing that day and had a call like after. Like, why didn't you turn up to a meeting? And I've realised that I've missed, so it can be quite like severe things like that like luckily, people have been really understanding but and I think that's definitely something that's been worse since doing PhD, just because like, there's so much more to remember and so much more to juggle. But there's definitely been times that I have, like, missed meetings, things like that. I can't remember anything super early on because it wasn't something that really affected me when I was younger. I always actually had a really, really good memory and I was very sharp and I still do to some extent, but I've noticed the older I've got, the more that things like, like meetings and commitments have sort of slipped my mind at times. I've just found myself forgetting things.

Interviewer - OK, thank you. Can you give me examples of disruptions to your sleep schedule making your other symptoms worse?

Participant - Oh, I sleep absolutely horrendously honestly. Like I'd say, I probably on average I'd probably get about 5 or so hours a night, and that's usually fine for me to a point. Like if I'm doing stuff in the day, but I do find that if I haven't got, necessarily got something to occupy my brain or... if it's just the right situation, I will sleep in the day sometimes and it's never usually for hours. It's normally just enough to throw me off a little bit, like an like an hour here or there or whatever, or I do find it hard sometimes to stay awake in situations like meetings. Not all the time.
But enough that it's like something that I do worry about. So yeah, my sleep at night, I'd say does make things worse because, like, I just really don't sleep very well and I'm not entirely sure why. But that does mean sometimes it's harder to get up in the morning. It's harder to motivate myself to do things. I do find that... my body doesn't feel as good when I don't sleep as well, especially with me exercising quite a lot. I don't feel like I fully get that recovery time.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Right. So we're now on to the section, the next section which is going to focus... on the device that you use and how you use it.

Participant - Yep.

Interviewer - So what device or application do you currently use for these conditions and when did you start using it?

Participant - So I've got a Fitbit Inspire 3. I only started using it in December, but it was something, because I used to just track like macros and exercise on like an app. But I just started using this and it's been yeah, so much easier.

Interviewer - Yeah.
Have you used any tools previously?

Participant - No, just like online apps sort of like things like my fitness power. I've like input things like my water intake and food, and like my exercise, but that isn't very accurate. So I thought this was a better bet.

Interviewer - So previous tools are more like manual reporting diaries...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - ...and now you've changed to a Fitbit...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - ...which is automatically recording.

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - OK, how do you use this device?

Participant - So I use it for quite a few different things, so I got it originally just because I was sort of focusing a bit more on my exercise like I've been going to the gym for about nine years. But it's only in the past couple of years I'd say I've really properly got into like a serious routine.
But I'm also very aware that it is harder for me than a lot of people to, to progress in a lot of ways, so I got it originally just to check things like my steps, keep on top of my sleep because I knew that was quite a big inhibiting factor in my recovery. Things like my heart rate and calorie burn as well because like I do, I have to manage my weight quite well as well 'cos I notice if I carry extra weight, my knees just don't like it. So I've just been using it, yeah, in general, just keep an eye on my activity and just make sure I'm doing enough, but not doing too much and sort of working out which days are better for me to do certain exercises. Like if I've had a heavy day the day before, I might ease back a bit because it does... it kind of gives you advice on how much cardio and stuff to do based on what your load has been recently, so it's got a tool built in to tell you if you've you might have overtrained recently, if you might have overexerted. So I use it for that. So if it's if there's a day where it suggests that I might have overtrained a little bit recently, I'll ease off that kind of thing.

Interviewer - OK, when do you use this device or app or application? This isn't necessarily when is it collecting data, but when do you look at it? When do you think about it? When do you change actions?

Participant - So ummm, I'll-I usually check it, I check it in the mornings just to check what my sleep quality was like as well, because that's one thing, like I can sleep for a certain amount of time, but my sleep quality can often be quite low, so I use it to check that and it sort of gives you like a daily readiness score as well to say like how you know how, how well you've slept. How much you might have exercised recently just to tell you, like, how physically ready you might be for a day. So I usually have a look at that and just see, like, oh, what kind of day could it be? Like, I know I don't take it as gospel, but like, it's a good indicator. I'll usually use it maybe towards the end of the day after I've like, come home and finish what I'm doing just to check.
How many steps I've done and just make sure I've, you know, been getting enough steps in and I use it anytime I do a workout as well, so I just switch that on depending on what workout I'm doing just to keep an eye on like my metrics there and my heart rate, things like that.

Interviewer - OK, how frequently do you use or check the, the device?

Participant - I'd say like maybe, like properly check and read the metrics maybe like three times a day, but like in passing sometimes like if I notice like "Oh my heart rate feels a bit high", I'll have a look and things like that. So I'd say like 3... a proper check and a proper look at my stats on the app that's on my phone. But yeah, a couple of other times throughout the day. Just out of curiosity usually.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Right, we're on to the main section. This is the last big section. This is about your device and your conditions interacting together. So can you give me examples of activities that caused your decision to use the device or application or previous devices and applications?

Participant - Yeah. So I've been into weightlifting like, not, not like serious lifting, but like, I just I lift weights like four to five times a week. And I've been doing it for quite a long time. But I think the main reason it spurred me on is because, like, I'm into my 30s now. So...
I've sort of noticed as well as like just having the general mobility condition, age as having a factor in it as well. I don't heal up as quick as I used to. I don't recover as quick as I used to. Some things are a bit harder like even though my joints are bendier, they're also stiffer, which I don't know if that makes sense, but like so things that used to be a lot easier for me physically and things I used to have more energy to do, I just find that I don't anymore. So I just thought it would just be a useful way just to sort of manage, because I used to just go to the gym five times a week, feel really guilty if I didn't go and smash out like an hour and a half workout multiple times a week, and I wasn't really listening to my body and I just noticed that... the further on I got, the more it was setting me back, so like I'd have a week where I'd do loads of really heavy workouts and I'd feel great about that. And then the next week I'd barely be able to move. I'd feel absolutely awful. I wouldn't be recovering because my sleep was bad, so I just thought it was, I'd rather... find something manageable and sustainable for me so I can still stay active without aggravating the condition and without making myself feel worse. So it just seemed like a good starting point to, to start managing it a little bit better and a bit more sustainably. Now I'm 30 and I'll probably, well, 33 and I'll probably end up with arthritis like my mum so...
Yeah.

Interviewer - OK. Thanks very much. I am going to quickly loop back and just ask you a question because you didn't mention anything that tipped my hand on this before, but you mentioned a heavy workout week and then not being able to do anything the following week.

Participant - Oh yeah.

Interviewer - Extended exhaustion or post exertional malaise or something similar, is that something you experienced?

Participant - It can be if I push myself too hard, I feel like I've learned my limits quite a lot. But there were times when I mean, and I do think this this isn't like just a mobility thing. This is also a mental thing because I used to have, like, really quite a bad body dysmorphia as well. So I had a lot of disordered eating, a lot of obsessions with exercise, so, a lot of what I would do would be get really obsessed with something, push myself and push myself and push myself to try and see results. And then the week after I'd just be like absolutely written off, so that didn't help. Like that was one thing that like it didn't help because that was a bit of like my other sort of issues coming into play, I suppose.
But yeah, I would. It was, it used to get quite bad at times. If I was pushing myself every week, I'd do like a really big workout, then I'd be like "Aw, I need to lift even heavier tomorrow", and I'd just be working the same muscle groups over and over and it would just absolutely like, write me off. So sometimes I'd have to take like a couple of weeks off the gym and just, like, do gentle walking instead.
Just to try and stay active.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Right, back to where we were before. Can you give me examples of the times that the device has alerted you to overexertion? This doesn't necessarily have to be it pinging on your wrist and telling you you're doing too much.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - At the end of the day, if you look at it and go "oh wow, I've done too much" that counts.

Participant - I've literally got one from yesterday, so this I mean this one isn't entirely just linked to my joint condition. I've basically I gave blood. Was it yesterday or the day before, day before and I've done it loads of times before like it's fine. But they said after 24 hours you know you should be recovered. So I went to the gym last night and I noticed my heart rate was, I was like, oh, I don't, don't feel 100% yet. And I did check on my heart rate was way higher than it normally would be for that kind of exercise. And that is another thing I do have to keep an eye on my heart rate because with some connective tissue disorders, it can affect your heart valves. So I have to be really careful. And also I have to, I get screened every two years for a hereditary heart condition that my dad had, and the only way to find it is through an MRI. So I have to be really careful with my heart because that's the sort of thing that could come on at any time anyway. So that's like, it's all kind of linked, but also kind of not. But yeah, when I was mid exercise yesterday, it did flag up that my heart rate was quite elevated compared to normal and the variability was quite high, so that, at that point I was like, I probably need to stop because I noticed my body was feeling a little bit fatigued anyway and I thought that's probably a good indication I might be over exerting myself. And yeah, there's been times where because a lot, I do log all my workouts.
Just so I can like get an accurate picture of when I need to rest and there will be times where it said, "oh you've, you know, you've pushed yourself recently, try and ease off on, on things a little bit" and that's when I might take like an unscheduled rest day. If it's like picked up on a few things because it can pick up on things like you know like your variability in your heart rate, and how much you've done. And usually I try and listen to that and I think because I don't really always know my own, I don't know myself if I've done that much.

Interviewer - Oh, there we go.

Participant - Oh, it's back.

Interviewer - Sorry about that.

Participant - That's all good.

Interviewer - The joys of working from home.

Participant - Yeah, I can relate.

Interviewer - Right, so it can keep track of variability, unscheduled rest days...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - ...and I think that's about where you dropped out.

Participant - Yeah, I think that's the main thing for me really. It's just that I'm not always aware myself of when I've pushed a little too hard. So it's kind of good to have that reminder because it kind of gets ahead of it a little bit because I'm... because I do really, I do really enjoy exercising. It's just sometimes I don't realise how hard I'm pushing myself, so it's nice to have something that sort of picks up on... you know, metrics within my body or activity patterns because then like I know for most people it might just be like, "oh, I'm going to be a bit tired", but for me, there's a difference between just being a bit tired and just feeling absolutely horrendous. So even though I know it's not intended to be like, "oh, your hypermobility is going to act up" for me, that's a pretty good like... indicator that I do need to back off like it's not just that I'm going to be tired. It's like I'm going to feel awful.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. All right, so that was the over exertion question, yes?

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - Yeah, OK, perfect. Can you give me examples of activities you started after using the device?

Participant - Yeah. So I've actually started, since doing it, because I realised that I wasn't doing enough... that was like... like, not cardio, but things that were just a little bit more, because it's I think, it's still, it's still good to do things like that... I realised that you know I wasn't... I don't really care about necessarily about calorie burn as such, but like I say, it's more, it's important I do manage my weight as well because like when I've carried extra weight in the past and I don't, I don't care about what it looks like. It's just the fact it absolutely wrecks my knees. So it was things like I was just realising that I wasn't really... actually getting enough movement in in general like I was lifting weights, but I wasn't actually moving enough, so I started doing Pilates, since I had it and it's kind of helped with that because I can sort of manage like my activity there and it's a bit more gentle as well than weightlifting. And to be fair, I went last time I went to a doctor who told me Pilates would be really good for joint conditions because it basically builds all the stabilising muscles that you don't hit with other workouts and keeps your joints a bit more in place. So that's something I've started doing because I realised that I did have a bit more room for something that was not just lifting weights all the time and something, you know, it'd be good to do something that sort of regulate my breathing and my heart rate.
So started doing that.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of regular activities you stopped participating in as a result of using the device or previous applications?

Participant - Yes, I mean, I've not stopped as such, but I've changed the way I do my workouts. I used to really, really push myself on super heavyweights and I used to just want to lift heavier and heavier and heavier. And I've sort of changed the way I exercise now, so I do it a lot more intuitively.
And based a lot more on listening to my body rather than just being like "oh, I need to lift weights, I have to go to the gym." So I've just been rather than doing it out of habit, I've sort of been doing it based on what my body needs and it's just been really helpful in supporting with that. So like I say it's... I don't feel guilty about taking a rest day anymore because having the tracker kind of like made me realise sometimes I have pushed myself a little bit and it's like the kindest thing to do for my body, or it might have made me realise that, like I need to actually go to bed a bit earlier instead of dragging myself to the gym. So it's more the fact I've sort of like... I'm still doing the same things just differently like my... I've restructured my workout so I don't focus on the same things anymore. I don't just focus on lifting heavy weights, I just focus on building like functional strength in my joints and doing exercises like I say, like Pilates that are a bit more stabilising and not quite as strenuous.
So that's, I'd say probably more have changed it than stopped anything.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activity you might have started were you not using the device?

Participant - I probably would have wanted to start running, but instead like I just walk more now because I think I've realised that sometimes my heart rate variability and like and how much it I am prone to over exertion, I just thought it was... it was probably not the best idea because it was something last year, all my friends do park runs and stuff. They all absolutely love it and everyone was like, "oh, you should come for a run." And I just realised that it's just probably not for me because like, if just normal, a normal, a normal day for like a normal person can be over exerting for me, adding extra strain onto my body and my joints is probably not a good idea.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. And last one for this section. Can you give me examples of events that demonstrate your decision to choose this device?

Participant - Ummm...
Oh, I'm not sure I understand the question fully.

Interviewer - So the, the joys of academic wording of questions.

Participant - Ha ha.

Interviewer - Can you give me examples of when you have felt... vindicated in choosing to use the device in the way that you do.

Participant - Oh, OK, yeah, definitely. I mean, yeah, yesterday was a big one, to be fair, because I know that a while ago, I would have just thought, "oh, it's totally fine to feel lightheaded and dizzy and like, I'm going to pass out in the middle of the workout. That's totally normal." And I just would have, like, I wouldn't even... sort of realised how much of an effect it was having on my heart because I knew I felt off, but I know I probably would have pushed through that before I would have just been like, "oh, it's just normal", which isn't really. I just had a really unhealthy relationship with exercise. But when I saw, when I looked at my heart rate because I'm so used to knowing what it is just from my Fitbit and from checking my work out and... knowing like what my peak is, seeing it that much over I was like, "Oh yeah, this is a stupid idea. Like I need to go home." So that was like, that was a big one for me. And also just in terms of little things like, say, like giving myself rest days and knowing that it's OK to do that was a big thing because I was like, I used to struggle with that so bad. And now it's like if-if I've had, if I look back over the past few days and I have overexerted, I'm like it is more important that I let myself rest and recover than it is for me to just smash in another workout for no reason. So yeah, just in general, it's kind of helped.
Me re-evaluate my relationship with exercise and my body and just manage everything a lot better.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Right. So three final questions. These are more speculative.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - They don't necessarily have to be grounded in reality. You can come up with something sci-fi if you want.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So what physical form would your ideal device or application take?

Participant - Like as in like a watch kind of thing or...

Interviewer - Yeah. So is it.. is it a wristband, an application, an anklet, something attached to the ear? Is it not something physically attached to the body at all? Go wild.

Participant - OK. I mean I, I mean I-I quite like this except my problem is because my I move around a lot it does slip off quite a bit. So I mean if we're going to go sci-fi, surely an implant would be like absolutely genius just to track everything. But as it is, I mean, I know there's options for a ring. I think the ring is like probably quite cool, but I'm also fine because of my how my hands are. I have a lot of sensory issues with wearing jewellery and stuff. I don't tend to wear jewellery as much as I can because like, I get so many sensory issues just from things being on my skin so I don't know. For me, yeah, if someone could just like stick some kind of implant in that tracks everything and feeds it to my phone. That would be genius. I don't have to think about again, but, but as it is, I mean, I think the band is pretty functional in as much as I can just take it off. I can see it a lot easier. So yeah, I mean, I say those kind of things be what I think of like I do... I do enjoy just being able to look at everything at a glance and the app on the phone is really useful as well because I mean, everyone's got the phones on them these days, haven't they? So it's, it's pretty easy.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. What functions would you remove?

Participant - I mean, I don't think there's any that I'd necessarily remove. I think there's some that I don't really understand or pay attention to like the, the oxygen saturation levels and stuff. I don't really, haven't really got my head around that. So because I think mine is probably quite basic compared to some of them.
With it being my first one, I thought if I like it I'll, I'll maybe upgrade to something. I'm just going to open the app now and see which ones I don't use so yeah...

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - ...so the I mean I love the-the workout tracking function. I think that's really good. Yeah. This one like calculates, you know, how many minutes in a day you should be active based on like your readiness level, your recent activity levels and that's, I like that.
What don't I like? Yeah, skin temperature variation. I don't really use that. I don't really know anything about that.
I say the only thing that I don't necessarily like is sometimes it does buzz and tell me I need to move every now and again at times, and it's like that's a little thing that I'm like, you know, every day is different. I know it's just set to, like hourly. Remind me to get up and move. But some days, if I'm like, really busy or I'm really tired, I'm like, it feels like it's guilt tripping me. That's maybe one thing that I would probably get rid of.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - I'm sure there's a way to switch that off.

Interviewer - OK and what functions would you add?

Participant - Is this? Is this another one where I can do like something kind of sci-fi and like in an ideal world kind of thing.

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - So one thing I'm always...

Interviewer - You can do you... You can do things but grounded in reality all the way up to just oh, it would be wonderful if you could track my fatigue and tell me when I'm fatigued. Magically somehow.

Participant - Incredible. Yes. I mean that would be great. That would be amazing because like I do, I do think like for me so far, the readiness levels have been pretty accurate to a point. I mean, I know you can't always like take that as gospel because some days that'll say my daily readiness is 0 because I've barely slept. But I'll feel great. And that's just because I don't know, like I, some days I won't sleep at all and I'll somehow be super functional and alert. But one thing I would like and I know they can do this in like, I think the specific machines you can do it and I don't know how a fitness tracker would do it. But one thing that would be really useful for me is... body composition, scanning, seeing your muscle mass, things like that. Because I know that there's some areas that it's more important for me to build muscle than others. But I also know I do struggle with that. So things like my shoulders, where I really need them to, to stay in place or around my knees and my legs where you know, it takes the, the blood, the most of the strain, they're the ones where I'd really find it useful to be able to track my progress. Because I can't do that through strength because I'm never going to be able to lift above a certain amount, so I can't be like, oh, you know, it's getting stronger because I'm lifting more. I'd need to see, like, have I built more muscle around that area.
You know, is it able to support my joints in the way that I need to, to stop me being at risk of like, more of a dislocation? So that for me would be useful, just have a look at my body composition just to make sure I'm like maintaining muscle mass because that's one thing that is really important to me is because just because my joints aren't strong enough to...to stay where they're supposed to by themselves. So I've got to build those muscles and I've got to keep everything, everything strong. Just so I don't fall apart, basically.

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - So that would be really useful to sort of get a picture of my muscle mass and body composition. If that was a thing that could be like... But yeah, the fatigue thing, like, I mean, I don't, I think I'm not sure whether mine does or not like, the kind of functionality where it can detect if you have like any sort of little arrhythmias, things like that. Like I don't know if any of them are sophisticated enough, but I just know that... you know, if there were any abnormalities and heart rhythm rather than rate, that could be quite useful as well because I know that like, say, a lot of connective tissue disorders are linked to, like, problems with heart valves as well. And especially like, I think that's the kind of thing that'd be useful to anyone with those kind of disorders. But especially like, as someone who has to be investigated for a valve disorder from a completely separate thing. It would just be really useful to know that kind of thing, because then you don't have to wait two years for an MRI. You could just, you know, contact your GP and be like, oh, hey, I've had a bit of a an arrhythmia. So that would be quite interesting.
I'm trying to think of anything else.
Oh, I don't really know. I suppose if you had an implant you could check things like hormone levels as well. Because I mean, I don't really know anything about my hormones, to be honest. I probably should at some point. But I know that that would be quite an interesting thing to sort of track as well because like, I'm on the contraceptive pill as well. And like, I don't necessarily know if it impacts anything to do with hypermobility, but I know that has like a tonne of other effects as well. So yeah, things like that. But I think yeah, one of the main ones for me would be like body composition and muscle mass if there was ever a way to do that because that's just so important for me. And just like keeping my body functional. But the fatigue thing as well because, yeah, I think, I'm new-, I'm not so bad when I've got things to do. But sometimes, like when I'm just in the middle of the day and I just cannot do anything and I just, you know, if I could sort of pre-empt those sort of days...

Interviewer - Mmm.

Participant - And-and know when not just physically, but like mentally to back off a bit because it does tell me when not to over exert myself, but you don't always know when fatigue is going to hit you or brain fog is going to hit you...

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - ...or when you're going to be sat at your desk and thinking, "Oh my God, like I literally can't do anything and it's stressing me out" so... yeah, something like that.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. Thank you very much. Right. I'm just going to do a quick skim over everything, just in case you've got anything to add or if it reminds you of anything.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So the first section was about your conditions. So your conditions, your symptoms and relating to activities and onset. The second section was about your device when you started using it. How frequently, what for. The third section was these two things interacting so around activities that you... started or stopped because of it, or activities that made you decide to start using the application and then the last three of those speculative futuristic device ones.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - So is there anything you'd like to add at all?

Participant - I can't think of anything. Is it something I can get in touch with you? Like further down the line? If I think of anything.

Interviewer - Absolutely.

Participant - Brilliant. OK.

Interviewer - If I haven't like, got 3/4s of the way through the paper and someone emails me 3 weeks later and goes "Oh my God I've just remembered this" then yeah, I'll try...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - ...I'll absolutely do my best to work that work that in and all.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - I'm never going to say no to something like that.

Participant - OK.
Brilliant.

Interviewer - Because obviously again, brain fog memory issues.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - These are frequent things for people like that.

Participant - Yeah, it's so frustrating. 'cause sometimes, like, I'll think of something absolutely brilliant, like ages after. I'm like, "oh, no."

Interviewer - Yeah, it's, it's that, it's that old joke of "I have come up with a fantastic comeback three years after the argument happened." But with everything all of the time, every day.

Participant - Yeah.
Honestly, my notes app has just become my best friend now for everything like...

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - ...I've got so many notes that just don't make sense to anyone else because I just had a thought and I'm like, I need to put that down now because I'm not going to remember that in about an hour's time.

Interviewer - Yeah. Yeah. OK. Right. If...if there's nothing you'd like to add, I'll stop the recording, if that's alright?

Participant - OK, Yep, no problem.
