Interviewer - Today is dread day apparently. Right. OK. And then the, the last one we're recording now.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - The last one has a pleasant, I suppose name the sleepiness scale. So this is.

Participant - Sleepiness!

Interviewer - I'm spelling those wrong again. This is how likely you are to fall asleep or doze in everyday situations.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - And it's a scale of zero to three. I'm just going to write down there. They are a description of what each number means, and this is just in general, so this is not along any sort of time scale.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - This is if you were in this situation today or on your average day...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - ...what is your judgement of about how sleepy you probably would be?

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - So...
The first situation is sitting and reading, zero to three, as in the chat.

Participant - 3. I was asleep and reading a book.

Interviewer - 3, watching TV.

Participant - 2.

Interviewer - 2.
Sitting inactive in a public place, for example, a theatre or a meeting.

Participant - Zero.

Interviewer - Zero, as a passenger in a car for an hour without a brake.

Participant - Zero.

Interviewer - Zero, lying down to rest in the afternoon.

Participant - 3.

Interviewer - 3. Sitting and talking to someone.

Participant - Uhhh, 0.

Interviewer - 0. Sitting quietly after lunch brackets when you've had no alcohol.

Participant - 3.

Interviewer - Three, and in a car while stopped in traffic.

Participant - Zero.

Interviewer - Zero.
OK. And that is all of your surveys done.

Participant - Cool.

Interviewer - Wonderful. I can close that now, right.
What we're looking for? Do I have it open? I don't. Lovely. Thank you me. Bear with me a second.

Participant - That's fine. I need to. I'm just going to grab my laptop charger. I've just realised it's dying so.

Interviewer - Yep, no problem. Take your time.

Participant - That wouldn't be helpful.

Interviewer - No, it's fine. I will, I will warn you, both of the last two interviews I've done, my internet's dropped halfway through for about two minutes, so that might happen. I'm very sorry for that.

Participant - Don't worry, that's fine.

Interviewer - Right. If you are ready for the, the main bit?

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK. So the first bit is about the conditions and the symptoms and the like...

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - ...not about the devices yet.

Participant - Yes, OK.

Interviewer - So, the first question what chronic mobility condition or conditions do you have?

Participant - So I have Hypermobile ehlers danlos syndrome and I have a comorbidity of that, so it's caused by my eds and called pots, which is postural, orthostatic tachycardia. And so the EDS causes it's a connected tissue disorder, so...things like my blood vessels, my skin, my ligaments, they're all too stretchy than they should be. So it means my joints dislocate quite easily. So my fingers, my wrists, my shoulders, my knees, they're like the worst ones. So it means that my muscles have to work...10 times harder to kind of do the jobs that my ligaments should be doing. So that's one of the contributing factors to my fatigue is the fact that my muscles, they can never be off. Otherwise I fall apart like Lego like it's, it's a bit annoying, but the other side of it is the pots. So, what that means is because my blood vessels are rubbish, when you stand up normally they constrict to kind of force the blood back up to your head. Mine doesn't do that. So because my blood vessels are really lax, there's nothing forcing the blood back up to my head. So my heart rate goes up to compensate for it.
And so that means it's quite fatiguing because if even if my rest and heart rate is about 65, it can go up to 140, 145 while I'm just standing like, so it feels like you're running a marathon when I'm literally just standing in the till waiting to go to Asda or something. But the knock on effect of that is one that makes you way more tired two, but it also effects things like your digestion, so you can't refuel as effectively, which contributes to fatigue too. And one of the frustrating things is the medications that I have to take to maintain my pots which help my blood pressure means I can't lie down at certain points during the day.
So, like even when you're feeling tired and stuff and you're like, oh, just a little nap would help me out. Like, you can't. Because if it messes with your blood pressure a lot. So it means that you're constantly having to manage that fatigue constantly throughout the day with medication, feeding, like how your joints are going. So, all of them kind of contribute to you just kind of constantly being tired throughout the day. But yeah, it's a, it's a bit of a amalgamation of chronic illnesses that backfire and so on.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much.

Participant - Welcome.

Interviewer - I think that is the case for everyone. I'm going to be honest, me, me included, never one thing on its own.

Participant - Yeah. No, it's never simple, is it?

Interviewer - No, it never is. One thing causes another, causes another, etcetera. Can you-

Participant - The doctors just look at you mad.

Interviewer - Yeah! Can you describe to me the symptoms of these conditions that you experienced?

Participant - Yeah. So for my ehlers danlos syndrome, the biggest symptom is joint pain and that can be caused by just the instability in general or the actual dislocations and stuff. The main symptom for my pots is the dizziness and the nausea that comes from it. So they're, they're the ones that follow me around the majority of the day.
But all of those kind of compound with me being quite fatigued, so I'd say like it's probably like third, like my fatigue is like third in that kind of hierarchy of crap. But yeah, so there's my main symptoms I think.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities these conditions have prevented you from being able to do?

Participant - Yeah, so I struggle for standing up for a long period of time, so I'm OK for the 1st 15 minutes or so, but once we get going like past 15 minutes, my heart rate starts to climb. Like really, really quickly and I start to get problems with my knees. So I'm more likely to dislocate my knees just from standing if I've already been standing for around half an hour to an hour.
So it means things like if I'm going out with my friends somewhere, if it's, if there's a chance that we might not be able to be sit down like say, if it's a busy bar or something, that kind of rules that out for me. I love going to music festivals and stuff, but that's been really difficult in the past few years because I can't stand up to enjoy it.
And things like sports I used to do. I was the captain of the [sport] club in the UNI for a while, but I've not been able to do that recently because of the fatigue and the dizziness, making it just impossible for me to [participate].

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. When is the earliest instance you can recall of your condition inhibiting your mobility?

Participant - I was 14, I think, I dislocated my shoulder and I trapped a nerve in my neck in the same, like by dislocating my shoulder so I couldn't move my entire like left arm. I could only like move my wrist. So even though it was just a shoulder injury like my whole, my entire arm had gone completely numb as well. So that was the first kind of like I suppose, major impact of-of that condition, yeah.

Interviewer - And like you said, because of the hyper mobility that is more impactful as a dislocation than the average person and has a longer recovery time.

Participant - Yeah. Yeah. So when you for a normal person, just like it's the shoulder, it does cause like a lot of trauma to the joint and stuff. But with the issue with me, it's because my ligaments are so long, it doesn't take a lot of force for me to knock it out, especially once you've already done it the once. So I did it the first time. I used to do horse riding, which was like, OK, that affect that, that warrants dislocation, that was a good reason for it. But then the months following it, it was, if I sneezed, if I rolled over too hard. When you walk in the corridor in school, if someone like someone's coat caught onto your backpack, that would send it out. It was every little thing would make it pop out, and it was just it became more of an inconvenience the longer it went on, but also means that traditional treatments like surgery aren't an option when you've got hypermobility, because it's just not effective.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Reading between the lines here with more difficult recovery, would you describe extended exhaustion or something like post exertional malaise being something you experience?

Participant - Yeah, massively. So I think that's actually more of a problem with my pots and stuff. So whenever I have anything like big submissions to do in work for my PhD, one of the roles that I have to do is we take all our students to Wales to go for [testing].
And that's like a two week thing. Where was I was having to sleep in my car and do all of this teaching. But then for about a month afterwards, I couldn't get out of bed. I could couldn't keep food down like it was like the worst flu or covid ever. And it was just from the exertion of doing that.

Interviewer - OK, so I'm going to ask the question in its proper form. I didn't, even though you technically answered it. Can you give me examples of extended exhaustion after an activity? If there aren't any more than just say so.

Participant - Yeah. So there's one like where maybe in like getting like flu, like symptoms and stuff after like major exertion and stuff. But even down to if I take a shower, I can't just immediately go and get dressed like without fainting or I feel like incredibly out of breath so, if I have a shower I have to like sit down for about half an hour afterwards. Same as like eating a big meal. If it's anything more than like half a sandwich, it takes me like a good 45 minutes just to digest it. And then even after that like a good hour and a half afterwards. I'm still really slow and it I wouldn't be able to eat something and then go out for a walk for example that that would just be too much.

Interviewer - OK, thank you. Can you give me examples of brain fog inhibiting your activities?

Participant - Yeah, being like my doing my PhD is probably like a hard one. So when I've been struggling with having a flare up, it makes it really hard, especially when you're kind of navigating, when do you start coming back to work following like a big flare up of an illness?
Is my brain is soup for days like I can't, I can't even remember my laptop password half the time, let alone what was supposed to be doing with [subject] and all stuff like that. I'm like, that's just that's out the question entirely, when I've got brain fog.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you. And last one on the condition exclusively area...

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - ...can you give me examples of disruptions to your sleep schedule making your other symptoms worse?

Participant - Yeah. So one of the big things with like digestion, if I eat too close to bed, I can be sick. So when you have ehlers danlos syndrome, there's a condition that sometimes comes alongside it called gastroparesis.
Which is when, when your food enters your stomach, it's like a big bag and it does all the mashing to get it digesting and stuff, and typically for people with eds you won't have that. So the food just sits there in your stomach. It means that when you eat, you start to feel like satiated really, really quickly. So like one bite of food and you'll go, "Oh my God, I feel like I've eaten like a whole roast dinner", but that means that if I eat around bedtime one, I can't get to sleep because I feel like I've-I've eaten enough to pop. But sometimes, even if I do manage to get to sleep, I'll wake up either feeling really nauseous or actually being sick because of eating before bed and stuff so it can cause quite a lot of disruption to my sleep.

Interviewer - OK, thank you. Right. This second section is focusing on the device or application...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - ...or devices or applications that you are using or have used.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - So question one, what device or application do you currently use for these conditions and when did you start using it or them?

Participant - So this is, I use an Apple Watch series four and I use this app on it called TachyMon which monitors my heart rate and it gives more frequent, it measures it more frequently than the Apple's own one does, that tends to update like every couple of minutes, whereas this one does it like every few secondsA, and it's really useful because especially when my heart rate's creeping up, it like shouts at me. And so it has, like, one where it's like a little high but not really high. So I think I've set it, so my first alarm comes off when my heart rate's between 110 and 130, that's like your "OK you need to think about sitting down like, you know, kind of be careful. Like, yeah, your amber light sort of. And then when it goes above 140, that's my "Right, sit down. Stop what you're doing. This is, you know, you've got to pack it in now", but it's really useful for me monitoring what I'm doing.
Or especially like in a situation when I'm in work. So I do a lot of like GTA teaching. It might be that throughout the day my tolerance for getting up and getting down gets worse throughout the day and if I'm not necessarily paying attention to that, it's useful for having to have my watch go "OK, by the way, your hearts creeping up a bit, you need to slow down and stuff" just because I might sometimes feel OK doesn't mean my body's reacting that way. And when I ignore it, it usually results in me feel either fainting or something a bit later on, or feeling really sick. So.

Interviewer - OK. And just for clarification on why you're using not the Apple one, if my understanding of pots is correct, the Apple device can miss spikes in your heart rate...

Participant - Yeah, it takes an-

Interviewer - ...because of that reduced rate of recording.

Participant -  Yeah, it takes like a mean over every 60 seconds. So if you're, so my heart rate can spike within that minute and it will take the average of whatever my baseline was before I stood up.
And then what it's settling to afterwards, but it very rarely captures that peak where it might go to 140-150, whereas this TachyMon I think it does it every like 3 or 4 seconds. So it's giving you a more constant update of what's going and it is able to capture those peaks from when I stand up.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK. Thanks very much. Have you used any previous tools like this?

Participant - I just used the general apple one for a while and that was good for spotting like sustained high heart rates and stuff like if it was consistently like above a certain point. But it's not good for the peaks and stuff, but it's mainly just those two.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. How do you use this device or application?

Participant - So typically on a day where I know I'm going to be on my feet for a bit is usually when I prioritise wearing it. So when I'm doing teaching and work, is usually the big one. Or if I'm going to shops like, doing grocery shopping, that kind of thing. Those are the situations where I wear it the most just to keep me aware of my heart rate because I'm more likely to, to be distracted by something and not necessarily thinking about my symptoms.

Interviewer - OK, you've inadvertently answered question... The next question and not...technically answered the intent of this question, so I'll reword it. What do you...Oh, oh, words words. I've lost the word suddenly.
What are you looking for when you use this device or application? Like what features do you use and what's the intent behind you using those features?

Participant - Yeah so...
So I use it to look at my baseline for the day. So you're like my heart rate, my normal heart rate throughout the day will be different for a day where I'm working at home versus one where I'm working like in the university working. So it's useful for me spotting my, my baseline for that day and it usually changes based on whether I've had a flare up too.
So I can kind of gauge, OK, am I getting back to normal and stuff by my mean heart rate throughout the day. So that's one reason I use it. But the major thing that I'm looking out for and what I'm using the alerts from these apps is those notifications of the extremely high heart rates and it either means that I've not taken my medication, I've not eaten properly. I'm not hydrated or I'm pushing it, so it makes me go "Let's reassess the situation" and, you know, try and sort that heart rate out of it.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much.
I, obviously the way that you're describing it, this is different to how I know Apple intends it.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - I don't know what the intent with them TachyMon is.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - Why do you operate outside of the manufacturer scope?

Participant - Just for understanding my own illness, so I understand it's not supposed to be used for... I know you get the alerts from Apple Watch saying like it's not for looking at heart attacks like you know, but even though that's not what the manufacturer recommends it for, I've actually had a lot of good feedback from doctors and stuff through the stuff that I've been able to record on my Apple Watch. So I struggled with symptoms of EDS and pots from the age of 14. I didn't get diagnosed with EDS until I was maybe 19 or 20, and it took my pots to get diagnosed a few years after that, even though the doctors suspected I had it right then when I was 14 and 15, that's just how long it takes to get diagnosed, so in terms of building up that evidential base to say, look, you might not spot it when I come into the-the doctor's office for 15 minutes and you, you check my heart rate while I've been sat down for half an hour and it's fine. But you're not looking at every single time throughout the day where I'm getting those big spikes. It was useful for me to bring that to the doctor and go "This isn't normal", like you know, and try and force them to make that referral from that instance instead of being fobbed off by you've got anxiety and you're a woman, are you sure you're not pregnant and all that kind of stuff. So kind of force them to listen to me and help me advocate for myself a bit better because even though I know my symptoms quite often, the doctors are quite easy to fob you off but having it written down on paper, no, this is what's happening. It just meant that it-it was more difficult for them to pop me off in that instance.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. And last question of this section.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - How frequently do you use this device or applications? So that's not just how frequently do you have it on...

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - ...but also how frequently are you checking it?

Participant - So I wear the watch every day and I check, check it every morning just to kind of see what my body's up to that morning. And usually the frequency from then depends on how I'm feeling. So it would be most likely if I'm a day where I'm out and I'm doing quite a lot.
It'll probably be every hour that I'm checking in on it to see unless I have like a big spike in symptoms all of a sudden. It's usually once an hour.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Right. This next section is the last big section.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - This is the device and the conditions interacting together.

Participant - Cool.

Interviewer - So can you give me examples of activities that caused your decision to use the device or application?

Participant - So I used to do a lot of weight lifting, so that was kind of why I got the Apple Watch to begin with. And one thing that I was starting to notice was it was kind of alerting to me to really, really high heart rates even when I was working out. So that was when I started kind of using it and based on, because I was constantly going to the doctor and stuff, I think it was on the advice of one of them where they were saying make sure you're monitoring it outside of you working out too because they were concerned that it could have been like... so pots is like an autonomous nervous system problem. It's to do with my nerves not telling my heart to beat properly. But there are lots of like cardiac conditions to do with the structure of your heart that can be caused by EDS.
So that was actually why they investigated it to begin with, was they were concerned that there might have been issues with like the valves in my heart and stuff. But when they looked into it, thankfully that wasn't the case. I had to have, like, lots of ECG's and stuff. But that's when they were able to go, "OK, these, this is happening throughout the day" and kind of forced them to investigate further, but yeah, that's-that's kind of how I started using it.

Interviewer - OK. Thanks very much. Can you give me examples, you've already tapped into this a little bit, can you give me examples of times the device or application has alerted you to over exertion? This isn't just those alarm bells that go off.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - This is, for example, at the end of a long day...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - ...and then you look back on the data and you go oh wow, that was a lot.

Participant - Yeah. So sometimes when I've not necessarily realised that I've been in a flare up like because the symptoms can, when you feel crap constantly, it's hard to tell sometimes when you're feeling more crap than usual because you're just like, oh, whatever.

Interviewer - Mm-hmm.

Participant - But one of the things is my mean heart rate creeps up and up and up, when I'm having a flare up. So when I'm having a flare up my resting heart rate is close to 100 when I'm lying flat down. So when I start to see that baseline number get a little bit higher, that tends to be like a key that like, that's one thing that I'm looking out for.
And not necessarily when I've got like alerts coming to, but sometimes when I'm sat down, it can just be on like, oh, you know, am I just anxious or something like, you know, what's going on? And like, sometimes it is just anxiety and whatever. And if I look at my watch and my heart rate's fine and everything, I'm like, OK, you know, go and do some journaling. Go for a walk.
You know, address the mental side of it, but it helps me like check, you know, reaffirm to myself, "OK am I feeling symptoms from, like, mental and stuff like that? Do I need to just kind of self-care" or is it "No I'm-I'm starting to feel poorly here and I need to kind of, you know address that and, and make sure I'm eating or drinking or whatever to sort that out."

Interviewer -  OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities you started after using the device or application?

Participant - Yeah, so I tried doing more cardio and stuff to see if bringing down like my baseline and heart rate would help with these and if it would help with my sensitivity to like my heart to see if the, if working on my cardio would help that sensitivity to like, you know, exercise and stuff like that in general, because I've always done more like powerlifting sports, which by the nature of it mean that your heart rate goes crazy high and stuff. So I did try looking into cardio to see if that would help, but I found that the cardio was harder than the weight lifting and stuff because at least you can sit down in between doing the weights and stuff like, you know, you're only having to maintain that effort for a really short amount of time, and it's actually the duration of those activities that take more out of me rather than the intensity of them. So I can do quite intense stuff, just not for very long, but I can, I can't even do low intensity stuff for very long anyway, so...it's, it's the endurance that's the problem for me.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of regular activities you've stopped participating in as a result of using the device or application?

Participant - Cooking. Cooking was definitely a really big one that would usually, because I'm doing it at the end of the day and I would get massive spikes in my heart rate. And because I was putting myself through that by the time I actually get down to sit and eat a meal, I feel so sick I can't eat it. So I've been quite fortunate that my partner, he does like a lot of the cooking in the house and stuff, but that took a long time to figure out and that was partly through using the Apple Watch to be like, why is it I feel absolutely awful every single time I sit down and eat my tea like. I can't eat it, I can't finish it. I've spent all this time to, like, make this nice meal and I don't even want to eat it anymore and it was noticing that, well, actually my heart rates going like a marathon. So, you know, that's no wonder you feel like crap by the time you get down to eat your tea, you're not going to be in the mood for, fajitas or whatever.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities you might have started were you not using the device or application?

Participant - I probably would have kept doing things like jiu jitsu and quite intense weight lifting, but based on how my heart rate was reacting to it, I felt like it wasn't sustainable. So like my heart rate was going regularly over 180 while I was doing jiu jitsu and while I was doing weight lifting.
And while I was like, I still do weightlifting, the jiu jitsu was hard to keep going because the nature of it, you throw someone, you end up on the floor, you have to get back up again. And it's the getting back up that was really, really difficult. Not, not throwing people, not being thrown. That was fine. It was the standing up constantly that was dead hard. The weightlifting I had to stop it in the way that I was doing before, so like pure power lifting all the time just isn't feasible for me anymore. And because it was just my heart rate was too high and it was putting too much strain on my heart.
But I still do it. It's just I've had to, you know, modify how I do it so I can still participate in it because it's a sport that I love. So I still like doing powerlifting and that, but I have to, I can't do it to the extent that it used to.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of events that demonstrate your decision to choose this device?

Participant - Yeah. So I went to last year, I went to download festival and usually I wouldn't really consider bringing something like an Apple Watch to the festival, just in case it was like something that damaged and whatever, because that just seems like a bit silly.

Interviewer - Or it gets, or it gets nicked, which it probably would.

Participant - Yeah, yeah. But like it was, it was really useful for me to kind of go "Right OK you need to sit down now" because as much as my heart goes, "get in the mosh pit!" My brains like, "That's probably not a good idea" like.

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - But also like even, it was my boyfriend was holding me accountable too. So I'm like "oh, I want to go and do this!" And he's like, "What does your watch say?" And I'm like it says I need to sit down like so, no, it's good for I suppose helping me like last throughout the day making sure I'm not like...you know blowing through all my energy too early just because I do get excited and like in the moment you kind of forget that you're struggling with a chronic illness. And I keep thinking of, oh, a 13 year old [me] would be like straight into the mosh pit and it would be fine. And I'm like no. But you're not 13 anymore. Like, you know, it hurts so.
Yeah.

Interviewer - Yeah. So I think it's fair to say then pacing is an issue?

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - And the watch helps with pacing?

Participant - Yes, massively.

Interviewer - OK, I need to look into that actually.

Participant - You should. It, it's really, really useful.

Interviewer - I-I don't know, I don't know if you noticed the the mug, the cup.

Participant - Oh, I-I didn't see. No. Was it?

Interviewer - Bloodstock.

Participant - Oh, I love it. Go ahead.

Interviewer - This year and last, but I collapsed on the way back on public transport this year, so...

Participant - Oh, bless you. Oh, my God. Oh. No, when I went to download, my partner couldn't believe it, because even though there's like planes taking off, like every 30 minutes and stuff, I was getting a full, like, 11 hours of kip every night. And he's like, "How?" And I'm like, "Because I'm exhausted."

Interviewer - Yeah.
Absolutely shattered, yeah.

Participant - I was like literally as soon as you get in he's like, "Aw, do you want to go to like one of the tents?" I'm like straight out. I was conked out.

Interviewer - Yeah, I'm not going to go into detail obviously because of recordings, but my camp is a very big camp and a very large, a very loud camp, but I will conk out at midnight until 9:00 in the morning and none of them understand how.

Participant - Yeah.
I've like, honestly, I don't think I ever slept like such a baby as I have in a field covered in mud and people screaming and falling on the tent.

Interviewer - And then you and then you get back home to your lovely bed with all your covers, and you can't sleep properly.

Participant - I know. Yeah, I'm just kind of like how I'm like, I was literally sleeping on rocks, and I was doing better than this, like.

Interviewer - Oh gods, we, we love the struggle.

Participant - We do.

Interviewer - OK, yeah, I know. I'll have to look into that because I've got Bloodstock tickets for next year.

Participant - Yeah. No, it's just helpful just to be like, OK, like, you know, mentally, you're like, oh, yeah, I want to go for it. But I'm like, I might feel is my body in the same like, are we in the same frame here, like, just kind of helps you, like, take everything into context and stuff?

Interviewer - Yeah, because like an individual gig, you can you can jump in the pit at a gig...

Participant - Yeah, yeah.

Interviewer - ...and you just get home and you'll feel it six hours later. But six hours later, you're in bed, so it's fine.

Participant - Yes. Yeah. When you're at a festival and it's 3 days of it.

Interviewer - But the four day festival...

Participant - Yeah, especially because it was for me, like, my partner doesn't drive. So it's like I'm gonna drive home. So I'm like, there's no good if I'm like, you know, in a in a bag of bones on the floor. He's gonna be like, "Well, we're screwed!"

Interviewer - Umm, right, OK. Last 3 questions...

Participant - Mmhmm.

Interviewer - ...to stop yapping about festivals, as fun as it is.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - These are more speculative...

Participant - Mmhmm.

Interviewer - It's like a different section. You can go full sci-fi if you want, but, if you want to go full sci-fi, I'd appreciate like a variety of answers.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - You can...maybe some people will ignore the sci-fi answer, but you know, obviously say what is most useful to you.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - Umm.
And you don't even need to necessarily think about other conditions and the like.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - Just what is useful to you as much as you can think. What form would your ideal device or application take? Being a physical form?

Participant - So having watches are really useful, but like I do find like it gets in the way quite a lot like you know, like when you're trying to write, it's like constantly on the bashing on the desk and stuff. I don't wear any other jewellery like apart from my nose ring, I don't have earrings, I don't have bracelets, necklaces, nothing so...for me, I'm like very aware that I've got it like on my wrist. So something if it could be more discreet in that sense would probably be like my go to in terms of it would never be off my wrist and stuff in that instance. But also I've got tattoos on my wrist. So sometimes the, the light which monitors your heart rate...doesn't work as well when you got tattoos, so I have to wear it on my right hand, which isn't ideal because that's the hand that I write with, but it's I don't have tattoos on that side. So yeah, in terms of devices that were still accurate for people with tattooed skin, that would be like a cool one or...ones it didn't have to necessarily be like, you know on your wrist because as well like when my like alarms go off, like, especially when I'm teaching, I've had students be like, "What's that blaring thing on your wrist?" And I'm like, "Oh, yeah, no worries. Just trying not to faint." Like, so, like, if it was, like, maybe not a bright flashing light on my wrist, that would be really cool. But yeah, in terms of the, it's more just the day-to-day comfort with it. That's sometimes a bit frustrating.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. What functions would you remove?

Participant - What functions would I remove. Social media, social media notifications? Those are like the big ones that take forever to kind of sort out because it's, it's not a health device. It's like the link to your phone and stuff. And it's like, although the fact that it links to my phone is useful for checking the health information and stuff, it's sometimes all the other stuff I'm like. I don't want to see that I've got an e-mail on my thing that's monitoring my heart rate, that's not going to help my heart rate. It's like, yeah, no emails from work that's going to make it go up. But yeah, I think it's just that separating it from being a, a phone on your wrist versus a health device and stuff would probably be the big thing.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you. And last question, what functions would you add?

Participant - Monitoring breathing would probably be a big one, because they tend to kind of go hand in hand, feeling out of breath and stuff, because if your heart rate's going really quick, you know you've got problems with like oxygenation and stuff. But yeah, like being able to, like, reliably monitor breathing.
And that would be like kind of like a big set because I know a lot of things can't do. It would be blood pressure, because sometimes I'll get blood pressure drops that don't get picked up by my heart rate changing. So my heart rate stays the same, but my blood pressure absolutely tanks. And I'm looking at my watch going" Why do I feel like crap?"
And nothing's changing on the numbers and stuff. But yeah, that would probably be a big one. Was like if there was some discreet device that would monitor your blood pressure, that would be fantastic for me because it would help me instead of having to go, OK, your heart rate's only kind of half the picture. You know, it would let me get a more concrete image of what's going in my body and stuff.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Is there anything else on those speculative questions you'd like to add?

Participant - Not that I can think of.

Interviewer - OK, I'll do a quick overview of everything just in case something comes to mind.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - First section was about conditions and symptoms like brain fog, extended exhaustion, sleep disruption, etcetera. The second section was specifically about your device.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - And how you use it, when you use it, how frequently what you're looking for all of that, the third section was how they interact. So things you've stopped doing, things you've started doing, things you would have started doing etcetera, etcetera.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - And then that those last three were the speculative questions.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - Anything coming to mind?

Participant - Not that I could think of, no.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. Thank you very much. I'm just going to stop the recording quickly.

Participant - Yeah.
