Interviewer - Hey, there we go. Right. OK. So I've put in the chat for the first survey, this is your choice of answers for every question. Again, don't think about it too much. You are comparing your last month to what your baseline is, what your normal day-to-day, you would expect to be. So is your last month better than usual, no worse than usual, worse than usual, or much worse than usual. And I'll go through with these 11 questions on the first one just quickly.
You don't need to elaborate for these. Just give me one of the options. Gut feeling. Don't overthink it and, and yeah, and that'll be the first one done over quickly, yeah, happy and understand?

Participant - Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.

Interviewer - OK, good. Good. First question, do you have problems with tiredness?

Participant - Sorry?

Interviewer - Do you have problems with tiredness?

Participant - Yes, I do have problems with tiredness. It's like ongoing and one of my main symptoms.

Interviewer - So sorry, out of the in, the chat, I've put the four options better than usual, no worse, worse than usual or much worse, you can give me one of those four options, please. The-

Participant - I'm-

Interviewer - Sorry, go on.

Participant - All right. I'll just repeat what you just said, please.

Interviewer - Sorry?

Participant - I repeat the part of our way. You're talking about usual stuff. Just talk about that, please.

Interviewer - So in in the team's chat for the meeting, I've put the four options available for this survey for each question. So I need you to answer each question with one of the four, one of the following things: better than usual, no worse than usual, worse than usual, or much worse than usual.
So...

Participant - Oh, alright, alright. Oh, I even see the-the words you put around...

Interviewer - Yeah.
It's no problem, no problem at all. So for the first question, do you have problems with tiredness? Which of those four options for the last month compared to your usual day-to-day life fits best.

Participant - Worse than, worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than udual. OK, the-the proper talkie bit where I will ask you a question and you can talk at me for 10 minutes is a little bit later. I'll let you know when that's happening.

Participant - All right.

Interviewer - Sorry for the confusion.

Participant - All right.

Interviewer - Do you need rest more?
Again, one of the four options, do you need to rest more? Better than usual, no worse than usual, worse than usual, or much worse than usual.

Participant - More worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse or much worse? Much worse?

Participant - Ahh, much worse than usual. The fourth option.

Interviewer - Yep. Do you feel sleepy or drowsy?

Participant - Like right now?

Interviewer - Your last month compared to most of the time.

Participant - Oh. Oh, sorry. Sorry. Worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Do you have problems starting things?

Participant - For that I'd go with worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Do you lack energy?

Participant - Do I like? Do I lack like energy, worse than usual?

Interviewer - Worse than usual.

Participant - Yeah.
Interviewer - Do you have less strength in your muscles?

Participant - Worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual. Do you feel weak?

Participant - More worse than usual.

Interviewer - So much worse than usual, yes?

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - OK. Do you have difficulties concentrating?

Participant - Worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Do you make slips of the tongue when speaking?

Participant - Um, no worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse than usual. Do you find it more difficult to find the right word?

Participant - Worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual. How is your memory?

Participant - My memory, my memory.
That would be worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual. OK, so that is that survey done.

Participant - Alright, thank you.

Interviewer - So two more left.

Participant - All right.

Interviewer - Again, sorry for the confusion. I know some of it is also lag because of how far away you are. Obviously there's a delay with the Internet connection.

Participant - Yeah, yeah, that's true.

Interviewer - So the next one I'm putting some of the options in... It's a numbered scale from 1 to 7.
So #1 is disagreeing the most #4 is neutral and #7 is agreeing the most. So if you wanted to slightly agree, it would be a 5.
Because it's slightly more agreeing than neutral, just a little bit of agreement.
So any number from one to seven with four being neutral, one being disagree and seven being agree. OK?

Participant - Alright, alright, alright, I...

Interviewer - So this this is the last week.
So during the past week, yes?

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - OK. During the past week I have found that my motivation is lower when I am fatigued.

Participant - Sorry. So with that, I'll go with seven. I agree.

Interviewer - No problem.
Seven.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Exercise brings on my fatigue.

Participant - I strongly agree 7.

Interviewer - Seven, I am easily fatigued.

Participant - I strongly agree.

Interviewer - 7.
Fatigue interferes with my physical functioning.

Participant - I'll do 7.

Interviewer - Seven again, and fatigue causes frequent problems for me.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - Seven again. My fatigue prevents sustained physical functioning.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7, fatigue interferes with carrying out certain duties and responsibilities.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - Seven again, fatigue is among my three most disabling symptoms.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - Seven and last but not least, fatigue interferes with my work, family or social life.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - Seven. OK. So that's that second one done.

Participant - All right.

Interviewer - Thank you very much.

Participant - All right.

Interviewer - Just one more left...

Participant - All right.

Interviewer - ...this has another different scale. Sorry. Again, it's a little confusing to jump from scale to scale, I know.
So I'm just typing up what each number means in the chat a second. Bear with me.
If I can spell properly, Oh my God.
Right. So that is the scale for the final one, zero to three. This is around how likely you are to fall asleep or doze in certain situations.
This doesn't...

Participant - Alright, alright, I see. I see.

Interviewer - This doesn't have an explicit time frame, so you're not thinking specifically within the last week. This is just if you're in this situation, how likely do you generally think you would be to fall asleep?

Participant - All right.

Interviewer - So, some of these situations are a bit wacky, I didn't write them, they are as they are.

Participant - All right, I see.

Interviewer - Just some, some of them are a little bit amusing. But yes, so situation one sitting and reading.

Participant - Moderate chance of dozing, 2.

Interviewer - 2, watching television.

Participant - You said?

Interviewer - Watching television, watching TV.

Participant - Alright, alright, I get you. I get you, I get you, I get you, watching TV. That will be moderate chance of dozing, 2.

Interviewer - That's a two, sitting inactive in a public place. For example, a theatre or a meeting.

Participant - High chance of I'm dozing.

Interviewer - 3.
As a passenger in a car for an hour without a break.

Participant - High chance of dozing, 3.

Interviewer - Three again, and lying down to rest in the afternoon.

Participant - Oh, I love rest so much so, so high chance of dozing. Of course 3.

Interviewer - Three. Me too.
Sitting and talking to someone.

Participant - Right, sitting, talking to someone you said, you said?

Interviewer - Yep, sitting and talking to someone, anyone.

Participant - Oh, alright, alright, alright. I thought it was a specific person. Like a dog or something.

Interviewer - Nope.

Participant - With that, with that slight chance of dozing, 1.

Interviewer - 1.
Sitting quietly after lunch in brackets when you've had no alcohol.
Like I said, they're a little bit wacky.

Participant - That would be moderate chance of dozing off, two, because I'm quite full.

Interviewer - Two and in a car while stopped in traffic.

Participant - Right.
In a car that will be, I will never doze. Yeah.

Interviewer - So 0.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Good, good. Thank you very much. Yeah. Like I said, some of them are a little bit wacky, especially for you because I, if I understand right, having alcohol during lunch is not common in America. It's common here.

Participant - Yeah, that's how I was like "Alcohol. Like who drinks during the day?"

Interviewer - Yep. Yeah, that's...

Participant - But I think it's going on your side.
You do it. In fact, you do. I feel like you do it.

Interviewer - I-I mean, I personally occasionally, but I know a lot, a lot of people in the country do it a lot.

Participant - So you're guilty!

Interviewer - I mean, there's, not so much anymore. But yeah, because funnily enough alcohol makes me sleepy.

Participant - Alright.

Interviewer - OK. Demographic questions, surveys and OK, we're into the main bit of the interview. So this is the last thing. It's the main bit, 20 questions.
Excuse me. They're split up into sections. This first section is going to be about what chronic mobility conditions you have and how they affect you. Again. Feel free to ask for a break or to... go back to an earlier question if you remember something, or to say that you can't remember anything or you don't have any examples for any question. You don't have to answer all of the questions, and there is no specific questions that you have to answer or anything like that.
So just answer as many as you feel you can, and there's there's no obligation here or anything.

Participant - All right, all right. All right. I-I get you, I get you, I get you.

Interviewer - OK, so question one, what chronic mobility conditions do you have?

Participant - I have long COVID diagnosed after infection in 2021 and it causes like ongoing fatigue and mobility issues for me.

Interviewer - OK. Would you say ongoing fatigue, is that a large period of fatigue after any exertion? So like several days of... needing to rest, 3-4-5 days.

Participant - Well, what I can really like say is that yes, that's right first of all. And even in small amounts of an exhaustion can leave me fatigued for several days. So sometimes three to five days over needing extra rest. So yeah.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. Can you describe to me the symptoms of these conditions that you experience, any and all that you are willing to describe?

Participant - All right. OK. So I was just trying to put everything together in my head.

Interviewer - No problem. Take your time.

Participant - So I experienced like, sorry, chronic fatigue, shortness of breath, muscle weakness and a brain fog. If I over like exehrt myself, I get post exertional crashes where my fatigue and symptoms worsen for several days.

Interviewer - OK, so I believe in, in the UK we call that post exertional malaise.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK. If that sounds about right, can you give me examples of activities this condition has prevented you being able to do?

Participant - I guess I was looking forward to that question. I had to stick my hand up!. So it prevented me from doing like a longer walks exercising, you know, the gym because I used to go to the gym and even everyday things like our housework or social activities. So I often have to like cancel plans or break tasks into very small steps because of the fatigue and breathlessness.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. Thank you very much. When is the earliest instant you can recall of your conditions inhibiting your mobility?

Participant - All right, I will... The earliest was around mid 2021 shortly after I, after I first had COVID. I noticed I couldn't manage simple activities like a walking short distances without feeling completely drained and that was when my mobility started being affected.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of extended exhaustion after an activity?

Participant - All right. Nice question. Yeah, sure thing, I can. An example will be if I go to the grocery shop for grocery shopping or take longer walks, I can feel exhausted for several days afterward .Even like light exercises or attending a social event can leave me needing three to five days of rest to recover.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of brain fog inhibiting your activities?

Participant - Talking about brain fog. All right, brain fog makes it hard for me to like, concentrate or remember things. For example, I sometimes lose track of what I'm saying mid-conversation. Forget simple tasks or struggled like our focus or reading or working on the computer.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Quick question because this has happened to people, are you currently struggling with brain fog when trying to answer these questions?

Participant - Alright. Can I be honest or I can have it...?

Interviewer - Yeah, absolutely, absolutely. I mean, these are academic questions. They're difficult for me to ask. So I expect them to be difficult for you to answer.

Participant - Well, yeah, sometimes like I have like this main, mid, like a mild brain fog while answering the questions you're asking me and I may need a moment to think or-or for a question to be repeated. That's why I keep on saying repeat, repeat and I keep on telling you just a minute. Let me bring... bring everything out. So yeah, something I'm experiencing.

Interviewer - Yep.
Absolutely no problem. Thank you very much. Thank you for-for talking about that as well. I know it's not easy to admit that in the middle of the-the thing that you're struggling with sometimes.

Participant - Yeah, I fear being mocked or judged. You know, someone might even call you dumb.

Interviewer - Yeah, yeah, that absolutely won't happen here. I'm struggling with brain fog right now as well, so...

Participant - So we are trading basically?

Interviewer - Yeah, no, exactly. OK, question 7. Can you give me examples of disruptions to your sleep schedule making your other symptoms worse?
If this isn't relevant to you, by all means say that it isn't.

Participant - All right.
Yes, 'cause. If I have like poor night sleep or wake up several times, my fatigue is much worse the next day, and I'm more likely to feel weak, short of breath and struggle with concentration, basically.

Interviewer - OK, so it just exacerbates. It makes you, all of your symptoms worse?

Participant - Yeah, in that manner.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK. So the next question, this is the next section as well. This is focusing on what device or app you are using.
So what device or application do you currently use for these conditions and when did you start using them?

Participant - Well, I currently use a step counter app on my phone. I started using it in 2022 to be precise to help me like track of-of my daily activity and notice of patterns within, with my fatigue.

Interviewer - OK. Have you used anything before this step counter app or any other tools at all?

Participant - Well before step counter I mostly track my activity and symptoms manually using my phone's notes up to jot down fatigue levels, steps and I was feeling each day so I didn't use any other dedicated fitness or tracking apps before.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. How do you use this device... or application I suppose?

Participant - Well, just to explain how I use it, I basically just use the step counter app to track my daily steps and distance walked and generally activity levels. So I check it throughout the day and see how much I've moved and adjust my activity on how I'm feeling.
And I also use it to like notice patterns between my activity and my fatigue levels as I said before.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. You've answered the next two questions in that answer. Perfect. Thank you.

Participant - All right, I'm doing good. I see. I'm doing good.

Interviewer - So we're skipping to question 12 because you have answered: When did you use the device, and how frequently. So the next question is part of the next section. This is about how your condition and the device interact together.
So can you give me examples that caused your decision to use the application?

Participant - Well, I decided to use the step counter app because I wanted a simple way to monitor my activity without over exerting myself. So I wanted to see how much I could safely do each day, track my patterns in my fatigue and set realistic goals based on my mobility limits.

Interviewer - OK. And you said you wanted a way to do that that didn't cause exertion itself, so that dia-, manual diary you were keeping before the reason you stopped using that is because that took effort in itself, right?

Participant - Yeah, yeah.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK. Thank you. Can you give me examples of times the app has alerted you to overexertion?

Participant - Well, for example, a few times in the app showed I had already reached my step goal early in the day when I tried to push farther, I noticed my fatigue worsened and I needed several days to recover, so the app helped me realise how, realised I was overdoing it and encouraged me to rest. Instead of pushing through.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities you started after using the device or application? Again, if there are none, just feel free to say that there are none.

Participant - All right, all right. All right. Let's see, since using my step counter up, I've started, I've, like, started taking short daily walks around my neighbourhood and doing gentle stretching at home basically. And I've also started, like, breaking up household task into smaller sessions.
Just pacing myself based on what the app tells me about my activity levels, just normal stuff.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. Thank you. Can you give me examples of regular activities you stopped participating in as a result of using the app?

Participant - No, just give me a moment to just put the, piece everything together.

Interviewer - Yeah, no problem. Bear with me. I'm just going to grab my water bottle.

Participant - All right. All right, that's good.

Interviewer - But feel free to talk. I can still hear you.

Participant - Alright, alright.
Well, using the app has made me more aware of uhh limits, so I've stopped doing longer, like longer walks, intense workouts, or back-to-back errands that I will push me past my step goals. So I also limit social activities that require a lot of standing or walking in one day.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Are there any specific examples of activities that you can give me just off the, off the top of your head?

Participant - Just a moment.

Interviewer - No problem.

Participant - All right. For example, I used to go like grocery shopping. As I said, for an hour or more without breaks. But now either split it into shorter trips or ask someone to help, or do it for me. And I also used to try attending long social gatherings or events, but I've stopped doing that because it left me exhausted for days afterward, and then I had exhaustion.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of events that demonstrate your decision to choose this device?
Or application.

Participant - One example is when I noticed I constantly feeling wiped out after even short walks. I wanted a way to track my steps and see patterns with my fatigue, so I chose the step counter app. Another example will be is when I try to go back to the gym or...
But I had to stop early because of the exhaustion, so the app helped me set safer, realistic, uhhh activity limits.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. Thank you. So three more questions and then we're done. These are more speculative questions, so feel free to make up something that doesn't exist yet. It will still be useful.
You'll understand what I mean when I ask the first question. What form would your ideal device or application take?

Participant - Alright, I see. I-I see. I see.

Interviewer - So again you, you can make up something Star Trek level if you want.

Participant - All right, my ideal device will be a simple wearable tracker pad with an app. It will track my steps, movement and energy levels, but also let me log, let me log fatigue, brain fog and other symptoms easily. It could give me like personalised recommendations for pacing and rest.
And it just goes based on how I'm feeling each day.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. What functions would you remove?

Participant - Functions, I'm talking about functions, so I think I will remove features that are set generic high step goals or pushes us to like overexert. So like constant notifications to reach 10,000 steps. I'd also remove complex metrics that aren't useful for people with mobility limitations so the app stays simple.
Focused onwards relevant to my condition.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. Thank you. What functions would you add?

Participant - Since I have partly-

Interviewer - You've already partially answered this, so if you feel like there's nothing, nothing extra you can add, just say that you've already answered it.

Participant - Well, I would add a fatigue and symptom tracker that links directly to my activity levels, and that's when I'm at risk of exhaustion and give suggestions for pacing or rest. It could also provide reminders for gentle like stretching or recovery activities, and a way to track progress over time without comparing to standard step goals.

Interviewer - OK, perfect.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Thank you very much.

Participant - You're welcome.

Interviewer - Right. I'm just going to quickly go over what each section was and if you think of anything you want to add, just say so. Again, you can feel free to add as many things on to the end as you want if you remember something. Or if there's anything in particular you feel should be included in the study, absolutely just... just say so and I've got no problem with it. So first question or first section was around your condition and what symptoms you had. The second section was around the application that you use and how and when you use it. The third section was around how your condition and the application interact with each other and how you change your behaviour according to what you see in the application. And the third section- the fourth section, sorry... Was the speculative questions around your ideal device.

So is there anything you would like to add at all at the end?

Participant - Umm, in regard to what I said I... do I really need to add anything like, maybe just add that it will be useful for future studies to look at how apps could integrate more physical activity and symptom tracking in a way that really adapts to people with chronic mobility conditions, also including reminders for pacing and recovery and the ability to share progress with the healthcare providers, could make these devices even more helpful. And I'm finally, I think it's important to consider mental and cognitive effects, like uhh brain fog, not just physical steps when designing fitness apps for people like me. So yeah, that's definitely what I'm gonna add.

Interviewer - OK. Perfect, thank you very much.

Participant - You're welcome.

Interviewer - I'm just going to stop the recording.
