Interviewer - There we go. Right. OK. So this first one is the last month compared to your baseline, what your normal expectation is. I will say all three of these surveys obviously are meant to be had at the onset. And that's onset of symptoms and that's not necessarily true for, for this study.

Participant - Right. Fair enough.

Interviewer - So don't think about it too much, if it doesn't feel like you're fatigued enough or too fatigued in the answers you're giving just, just don't, don't worry about that. Just like a gut, a gut feeling.

Participant - Mm-hmm.
OK.

Interviewer - So in the last month, compared to usual, do you have problems with tiredness? Is the first question. The options are a little bit strange, just posted them in the chat.

Participant - Hmm.
Right.

Interviewer - So it's not numbers, it's this scale.

Participant - Right. OK. Like, worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual. Again, don't, don't think about it too much. If it's a bit. Oh, well, kind of, I guess. Then that's more than fine.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Do you need to rest more?

Participant - Yes, I, I do.

Interviewer - Worse than usual, or much worse?

Participant - Worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse.
Do you feel sleepy or drowsy?

Participant - Yeah, worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse.
Do you have problems starting things?

Participant - I'll go with worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse.

Participant - I can see I can see a theme happening here.

Interviewer - No one would ever expect such a thing. Do you lack energy?

Participant - Yeah.
Yeah. Worse than usual, yeah.

Interviewer - Worse than usual. Do you have less strength in your muscles?

Participant - Actually, I'm going to go for no worse than usual on that one.

Interviewer - No worse, we love a change of form. Do you feel weak?

Participant - Yeah.
No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse. Do you have difficulties concentrating?

Participant - That, yeah, worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual. Do you make slips of the tongue when speaking?

Participant - No worse than usual, I think, although feel free to correct me. But, if I do slip up.

Interviewer - No worse.
The funny thing with that question is that's not actually what's written. What's written is do you make slips of the tongue when sleeping, and I've decided that's very obviously a typo in the...

Participant - Oh dear.

Interviewer - Which I quite like and I have to correct myself every time I go through this.

Participant - I know.

Interviewer - Question #10 do you find it more difficult to find the right word?

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse than usual. How is your memory?

Participant - Pretty poor at the best of times, but I'll go with worse than usual on this one.

Interviewer - Worse than usual, I think my favourite answer to that question was "I don't quite remember."
That's... Yeah, that kind of proved the point.
Right. So that's survey number one of three.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - The second one is a scale of numbers one to seven.

Participant - Right.

Interviewer - One is disagree, four is neutral and seven is agree and obviously intervening numbers are varying magnitudes.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - OK, so for example a three would be slightly disagreeing.
And this is...

Participant - Right, I might write this down. So one is disagree.

Interviewer - I can put it in the chat if you want.

Participant - Oh, that'd be super if you could.

Interviewer - Yeah, that's something I-I learned fairly quickly is...

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - ...putting the answers in chat so people can actually remember the scale that they're using. It's something you kind of need when brain fog is a frequent symptom.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - OK, so there it is in the chat.

Participant - Super.

Interviewer - This is during the past week instead of the past month, so a more immediate time.

Participant - OK.
More immediate.

Interviewer - So during the past week I have found that my motivation is lower when fatigued, numbers one to seven.

Participant - OK, go with a 5 on that one.

Interviewer - Go with the five, exercise brings on my fatigue.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - Seven, I am easily fatigued.

Participant - 6.

Interviewer - Six, fatigue interferes with my physical functioning.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7, fatigue causes frequent problems for me.

Participant - 6.

Interviewer - Six.
Where are we? My fatigue prevents sustained physical functioning.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7, fatigue interferes with carrying out certain duties and responsibilities.

Participant - 5.

Interviewer - 5, fatigue is among my three most disabling symptoms.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - Seven, fatigue interferes with my work, family or social life.

Participant - 6.

Interviewer - 6, OK. Thank you very much. That is survey #2.
Last one.
Where is it? Where's it gone? Oh, that was the same form, wasn't it? And I've just closed it.

Participant - Oh no!

Interviewer - I keep forgetting that that's two surveys and one PDF document.
Yeah, there it is.
OK, this one's a little, little, little bit quirky.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - Obviously these surveys aren't fully up to date, necessarily. This involves certain daily scenarios, so it's not in the last week or the last month or anything particular.

Participant - Alright.

Interviewer - It's if this would happen to you today or on your average day, how likely would you be to fall asleep.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - Now the definition of average daily circumstance changes somewhat. So yeah, some of these are quite quirky and it makes me giggle a little bit.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - But the, the scale is in the chat. Zero to three.

Participant - OK.
OK, right.

Interviewer - So yeah, it's just your chance of unintentionally falling asleep.

Participant - Fair enough.

Interviewer - But in general...

Participant - Hmm.

Interviewer - ...your chances of dozing when sitting and reading.

Participant - 2.

Interviewer - Two, watching TV.

Participant - Also two.

Interviewer - Also a 2, I can hit the right arrow key, sitting inactive in a public place. For example a theatre or a meeting.

Participant - Umm.
1.

Interviewer - One, as a passenger in a car for an hour without a break.

Participant - 3.

Interviewer - 3.
Lying down to rest in the afternoon.

Participant - 3.

Interviewer - 3, sitting and talking to someone.

Participant - 1.

Interviewer - 1.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - Sitting quietly after lunch in brackets when you've had no alcohol.

Participant - 3.

Interviewer - Three, in a car will stop in traffic.

Participant - Am I the driver?

Interviewer - It doesn't specify.

Participant - Oh God.

Interviewer - I would assume not, but...

Participant - I would hope not. If I was driving, I would be concentrating. So no, but if I'm a passenger, then probably a high chance, yeah.

Interviewer - Which, which, how would you read that? Which do you want to go with? Again, don't think about it too hard, to be honest. What's, what's your gut?

Participant - I...
I, I will assume that I'm the passenger and therefore 3.

Interviewer -  That's a 3. OK. Thank you very much. Yeah, this is what I mean. Lunch brackets when you've had no alcohol. As if that's an exceptional circumstance that needs to be specified.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - And also in a car. Whilst stopped in traffic. No, we won't specify what role you're playing in the car.

Participant - Yes, if the DVLA is watching. If, please don't take my licence away.

Interviewer - Yes.
It's, it's quite a quirky little survey that.

Participant - Yes, isn't it just?

Interviewer - Right. OK. So that's all the, the more boring stuff. Now it's the more talky stuff.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So this is up to 20 questions, some I will only ask if you mention the thing or if I read between the lines and think you might have a thing.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - If I'm not sure I will ask and then you could end up getting that question. So the first section is on your mobility or fatigue conditions and how they affect you.

Participant - OK, OK.

Interviewer - So Are you ready?

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - Good, good question one, what chronic mobility conditions do you have?

Participant - I have been (hoo-hoo!) diagnosed with hypermobility Ehlers Danlos syndrome and postural orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome, abbreviated as pots and heds.
It took me a hell of a long time to get those diagnoses. I, it was over a decade of going back and forth between doctors, getting people to believe me, but...
Yes, that's what I've been diagnosed with.

Interviewer - OK. Is there anything that you are self diagnosed with?

Participant - Ooh.

Interviewer - Or would self diagnose yourself with? I suppose that's the wording.

Participant - Not anymore. As I say, I was pretty confident that I had EDS. I wasn't sure which type of EDS, but I was pretty confident that I had EDS. But I have finally got a diagnosis now, so, yay!

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Congratulations on the diagnosis?
I think?

Participant - Well, it means I get access to treatment now. So that's a good thing.

Interviewer - Which is good. The downside is that you have the condition, but swings and roundabouts.

Participant - Well, yeah.

Interviewer - Can you describe to me the symptoms of these conditions that you experience?

Participant - Yes, so chronic pain, especially in my joints, it's never gone, though some days it's worse than others, especially after exercising, or really any physical activity is, is when the pain is at its worst. I've had that since early childhood. It was dismissed as just growing pains. It did not stop when I stopped growing, so it was not that.
I suffer from fatigue. It's worse in warmer weather, which is why I've been feeling not so hot recent. Well, I have been feeling hot. I've not been feeling so...good, recently, because of our sort of mini second summer that we've had though hopefully now that the temperature is cooling down again, I should start to feel a bit better. Again with that fatigue comes brain fog. And as we've already discussed in the survey, likelihood of me falling asleep. I tend to fall asleep after eating like a an hour or two after eating I will conk out. Apparently that's because of blood flow to my digestive system.
So that's fun. The pots affects me, particularly with moving, standing, changing position. If I stand up too quickly, I can faint. So I've...had to develop strategies of like, how to get up without fainting. Also, my heart rate is a lot, my resting heart rate is a lot higher than it ought to be. I have now got medication to control that so I am able to do more than I would previously, but I still need to monitor my heart rate regularly to make sure that I'm not doing too much because that will make all my symptoms worse in the long term and one of the things that could happen long term if I did not control my heart rate is the particularly the left side of my heart could become enlarged and eventually fail, so that needs to be monitored. I think every five years I get a echocardiogram for that. But yeah, monitoring my heart rate is very important for managing my condition.

Interviewer - OK, just to check I've got my terminology right, echocardiogram. That's the thing that's shortened to ECG, isn't it? Isn't it?

Participant - Umm...
That it's confusing because there are two things that can be shortened to ECG. There's the echocardiogram and the electrocardiogram. The electrocardiogram is where they put the dots on you.

Interviewer - Mmm, yeah. OK

Participant - I have had those as well. The echocardiogram is where they use an ultrasound machine to look at your heart and see the structure of it.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - I do in fact have both of those, but yeah...

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much.

Participant - It's, it's, it's confusing, but the, the shortening is the same. It's the same initials.

Interviewer - Yeah. Obviously as a study, not in the medical department...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - ...good to get this specified. Can you give me examples of activities these conditions have prevented you being able to do?

Participant - Mainly at the moment working. I've been unemployed for a while and it's difficult because there's not a lot of options that are fully remote because like commuting is a problem for me, having to get up and go to a place of work all the time. So I've, I've not been able to do as much of that as I'd like. I've not been able to... go out and socialise as much as I'd like, because of course, if I'm feeling fatigued and in pain, I can't really do that.
It has impacted the amount of housework that I've been able to do. I've not been very good at keeping my space tidy because I find it difficult to like bend over and pick things up.
But I have been getting help with that, especially from my parents, so I've been able to just about keep on top of things, but it's... that's where most of my energy goes into so...
Yeah.

Interviewer - So anything beyond maintaining that basic living standard or living condition of your, your immediate living area is...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Difficult.

Participant - Pretty much, yeah.

Interviewer -  OK. Thank you very much. When is the earliest instance you can recall of your condition inhibiting your mobility?

Participant - Oh, good Lord.

Interviewer - Again, you've mentioned childhood.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - If it's lifelong, just say that it's lifelong.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Give it, if give an example if you want and say this probably isn't the first instance, but.

Participant - Yeah. Like, when I was.... It is lifelong. When I was young, like as a toddler, I was quite late to walk. I would often like, sit on my arse and point to things and ask people to get them for me rather than doing it myself. Probably not the... I don't know. It's certainly the earliest instance I can remember, but no. Yeah, walking to school is something that I really struggled with. I was absolutely...
You know...
Severely in pain. By the time I would get to school and that would obviously impact my ability to do class work. Because you know, I couldn't concentrate because of the pain. But yeah, it is a lifelong condition.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. This is one I'm going to ask about because between the lines maybe. Extended exhaustion, post exertional malaise. Would you describe that kind of symptom?

Participant - Yes, I would.

Interviewer - OK. Can you give me examples of extended exhaustion after an activity please?

Participant - Well, as I say, part of what I've been doing to, as I've mentioned in the survey that I filled out earlier, I... spent over a year bed bound because my symptoms just got progressively worse because the more pain that I was in, the less exercise that I could do and so my tolerance to exercise decreased.
Now... through like managed exercise, a lot of pacing...
I've been able to do about half an hour of exercise physiotherapy at the gym twice a week. However, a couple of days after that I am absolutely knackered so...
I can't... You know, I will be very tired. I will be in quite a bit of pain. I'll be asleep for most of the day. The day afterwards. And so I tend to space it out once at the beginning of the week, once at the end of the week. So I'm...
I have time in between to do other things because I don't want to be completely fatigued completely in pain.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of brain fog inhibiting your activities?

Participant - Oh gosh, yes, umm...

Interviewer - If you are struggling because of brain fog, do you mention that, that-that is probably the most common answer I've had is, oh, I'd love to give you examples, however...

Participant - Yeah, I know it's, it... It is... It is difficult to think of things on the spot.
Like I-I do struggle a lot with my short term memory. I could not tell you what I ate for breakfast.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - I... Did I have breakfast? I'm starting to doubt myself now. I hope I had breakfast. But no, yeah, again... It's difficult to find and hold down a job.
Because obviously you need to be able to think to do work. It does help if you're not making mistakes. I find it... I've been finding it increasingly difficult to like...
read books. I find it difficult to like concentrate on them for a long period of time. I've been listening to audio books instead now which I, has helped somewhat, but I do sometimes fall asleep and have to rewind them.

Interviewer - Right, OK. Can you give me examples of disruptions to your sleep schedule making your other symptoms worse?

Participant - Yeah, if I'm in a lot of pain, I will find it hard to get consistent regular sleep. It'll be hard for me to fall asleep at the correct time. Might wake up in the night because of the pain.
That'll make me feel more tired and more likely to sleep during the day, which makes it then harder to sleep correctly during the night and it just gets, goes around in circles like that.

Interviewer - OK, right. So that is the end of the first section, which is exclusively about your condition.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - The next one is basic descriptions of your device in in the exact same way.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - Well, the exact same way in a very similar way.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So what device or application do you currently use for these conditions and when did you start using them?

Participant - I am using this. It is a Xiaomi Me band six, I believe? I've been using that for a number of years now.
It was... I bought it the year after it came out because they'd replaced it with the newer model and it was on sale...

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - ...so I suppose I could look that up.
But yes, it is a smart watch that can monitor things like my heart rate and my blood oxygen level.
And I use it in conjunction with the app notify for me band because that gives me a bit more flexibility and what I can do with it than the...official Xiaomi app.

Interviewer - OK. Have you used anything previously?

Participant - Previously to this, no, it says it came out in 2021, so I would have bought it in 2022.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much.
How do you use this device?

Participant - Mostly it's for monitoring my heart rate. I especially use it when I'm exercising to make sure that my heart rate stays... in the... appropriate range for exercise, which is around 110 to 120 beats a minute, so it aids me with pacing that it has for the exercise, it has a continuous monitoring mode, so it will... instead of measuring it once every 15 minutes, say it'll measure it continuously so you can see, but that does use more battery. I also use it, it has...
Because it has a like a gyroscopic motion tracker in it, it can tell me if I've been stationary for too long, and that helps me with my posture, because if I maintain the same posture for too long, that increases my joint pain. So if it will give me a little buzz if I've been sat in the same position for like half an hour say, reminds me to move about and that helps with my joint pain. It also monitors how well I slept. So that that give me an insight into, you know, if I've been sleeping well, do I need to focus on getting to bed at a more reasonable time? And if so, can I change some things about what I've been doing to get better sleep, so yeah, very useful.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. That continuous monitoring mode for exercise, is that something you manually enable? Is it something that it automatically starts doing or can it do both?

Participant - Yeah, it's, it's something that I have to manually enable.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - It-it would be convenient if it could do that, indeed something that I would improve about it, that seems fairly trivial to code... would be if it detected my heart rate over a certain amount during its regular 15 minute intervals to automatically start that continuous monitoring mode and also to like notify me to say "oh, your heart rate is raised. Maybe it's time to take a break" sort of touch. It'd be nice if it could do that, but it can't.

Interviewer - OK. Hold, hold, hold that thought.

Participant - I shall.

Interviewer - OK. Yeah. I'm just asking because I know pots, a lot of people have issues with Apple devices because they don't measure it regularly enough, so it can completely miss a pots heart rate spike.

Participant - Yeah.
Yes it can. One thing that I do like about it is that you can, well with the notify app, you can adjust the intervals in which it takes the measurements.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - So I've-I've-I've set mine to 15 minutes, but it can be any arbitrary number that you set so...

Interviewer - OK. That's very good to know. Thank you. So when, when, just to clarify, when do you use this device all the time? You're always wearing it?

Participant - Yeah, all the time.

Interviewer - OK. How? OK. So I guess that answers how frequently, but I suppose I'll slightly reword that. How frequently do you check the device or application?

Participant - How frequently do I check it?
Usually a... Two or three times a day. Unless I'm feeling like particularly bad at one moment, in which case I'll, I'll look at it to see how I'm doing in that moment. But like a flare up of symptoms, I'll check it an extra time, but usually about two or three times a day.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much, right.
Third section.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - This is third section of four. The third section is about your device and your condition interacting together.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So, can you give me examples of activities that caused your decision to use the device?

Participant - Definitely exercising, physiotherapy, because in order to get out of being bed bound, in order to sort of recondition myself, it's important to be able to exercise,
safely and in a controlled manner. That's not doing me any harm, but it's doing me good. So that's-that's the primary motivation for it.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much.
Good, good can... Oh, God. Where am I? There. Can you give me examples of times the device has alerted you to over exertion?

Participant - Yeah.
If I've had it in continuous monitoring mode for exercise, yes it has and I'm able to slow down, take a break pace myself.
If it isn't in continuous monitoring mode, then it hasn't. So as I said earlier, one of the things that would be... an improvement is if it did detect that I was having a heart rate spike that it could automatically start that continuous monitoring mode and give me an alert to let me know.

Interviewer - So currently with the way that you use the device or are able to use the device because of the way that it works, the only times you're alerted to over exertion actively as it's happening is during exercise.

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - OK, which you have to manually enter the mode for?

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - OK, slightly different take on that. Are there times say at the end of a day when you're looking back on a day when you check it to see how today has been, that you looked at it and went "oh, wow, I've overexerted today."

Participant - Yeah! There has definitely been that. There has definitely been times like that.

Interviewer - OK.
So frequent, but no ability to give a specific example.
Again, you don't have to. You can just say it does happen a lot. If, if you can't think of a specific example.

Participant - Yeah, I, I'll, I'll. I'll go with that. It does, it does happen a lot, especially if I've been walking somewhere, that-that can, that can happen. I don't necessarily realise that I'm overexerting myself at the time until afterwards I notice "Oh s***." And then I definitely feel it in the fatigue and the pain so...

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities you started after using the device?

Participant - Umm.
Regular physiotherapy exercise. I wasn't really doing that beforehand because I was finding it difficult to pace myself properly.
I-I-I would, I would often over exert myself trying to do too much and then I would feel unable to do enough afterwards. So...have, having, having the device has been able to help me do the exercise properly.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities you might have started were you not using the device?

Participant - Were I not using the device? I can't really think of anything. It hasn't inhibited me from doing anything.

Interviewer - OK, since you have passed that question, that is a "Is there anything you would have done that your data divide, decide made you decide Oh, that's probably a bad idea actually." Would you have tried something against... better judgement.

Participant - Oh, right, I think I've, I think I've slightly misunderstood the question then.

Interviewer - OK, no problem. I'll keep, I'll keep this bit then because obviously that happens quite a lot with brain fog and academic questions.

Participant - Right. Yeah. Now, 'cause. What, what, what you mean is, I believe the device monitoring the device and looking at it has alerted me to over exertion and therefore I have stopped.
As opposed to wearing, the device has prevented me from...

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - Yeah. Yeah, no.
It has... like if I'd been planning on going out and doing something, say, going on a walk to somewhere.
If my device has been saying that like my heart rate is too high, I have been overexerting myself, I would choose to postpone or delay that to a time when I'm feeling more able to. So yes, in that in that regard, yes, it has.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Yeah, it's, it's always worth clarifying these kinds of questions because, not entirely clear unfortunately.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Right, last question for this section.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - Can you give me examples of events that demonstrate your decision to choose this device?

Participant - Umm.
Mostly having tried exercise in the past without the device and overexerting myself causing my symptoms to be worse.
Uh, and thus not being able to...commit to like a-a regular schedule to-to-to be able to be more active and mobile.

Interviewer - So it's more a on reflection...
Umm...

Participant - No. It's like before I got the device I was trying to be more active and do physiotherapy, but I was struggling with it because I-I-I was... not really able to pace myself properly, so that was a contributing factor to me buying the device, yeah.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Right. Final Section 3 questions. This is a speculative...

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - ...set of questions, don't necessarily feel bound by reality. If you want to make something up, then feel free.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - But also if you want to use real examples or base everything off of your device, you can also do that if you want...

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - ...so completely up to you. No, no boundaries in this.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - So what form would your ideal device or application take?

Participant - The ideal form.
Honestly, the wristband that I've got at the moment is pretty good because it's not too large. It's not too in the way it's-it's-it's-it's quite a nice form factor it, it's not... It's sort of slightly slimmer than a regular watch, so it's it doesn't inhibit my movement in any way. It's not too...
What's the word?
Can we go back and change that answer where I say I forget the words?

Interviewer - No problem, I-I can get. I can go ahead and say this still happens.

Participant - Yeah, no, it-it-it doesn't. It doesn't get in the way. It's not... It's-it's-it's-it's nice. I like it.

Interviewer - OK. So, thank you very much. Yeah, if-if there's examples of symptoms popping up in the recording, I will shuffle stuff around and use that as needed.

Participant - Okie dokie.

Interviewer - Trust me, you are not the 1st and you will not be the last. And then even just talking about me, I will exhibit symptoms in these, these interviews, which is very funny.

Participant - Oh, bless you.
Umm, presumably that's part of your motivation to do this particular study, that it affects you personally.

Interviewer - Yeah, kind of I can. I can have a look chat afterwards if you want.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - Yeah, I do have a very reality based motivation.

Participant - Oh bless.

Interviewer - What functions would you remove?

Participant - Would I remove?
Let me go through to see if there's anything that I would remove.
Honestly, nothing. I think all the functions that it has are quite useful. Oh, another thing, scrolling through the functions on it that I do find useful is that it has... breathing exercise timers built into it so that if I need to like control my breathing, it can say, breathe in, hold, breathe out, and it will do that on the device. So that's that's pretty useful. I have made use of that.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - So nothing to remove?

Participant - Nothing to remove.

Interviewer - Lovely. Last one, what functions would you add?

Participant - What functions would I add? As I've said before, the ability to, if it detects a raised heart rate to automatically enable that continuous monitoring mode and to alert me. Maybe like buzzing or something.
Or send a notification to my phone. I don't know if it's necessarily counted as a function...

Interviewer - Mm-hmm.

Participant - ...but the waterproofing is a little dodgy because although, although it is waterproof. It's not necessarily pool proof, so my brother who suffers from the same conditions as me also has one. Well had one, would take it, would take it swimming regularly, but I think it's the chlorine... in the water like dissolved the glue around the screen and so it fell apart and short circuited and failed. So although... it is waterproof in presumably, clean drinking water which is what they tested it in. Umm... pool water with the chemicals that make is sanitary does mess with the glue that holds it together. So I don't know if that's necessarily a function, pool proofing it, but it would be beneficial to be able to use it in a pool without worrying about it breaking, because it means you can do hydrotherapy as well as physiotherapy.

Interviewer - And if I understand rightly, with hypermobility as opposed to something like long COVID or general chronic fatigue syndrome, the way to make hypermobility better is measured exercise.

Participant - Definitely, because it's important to do some exercise, otherwise you become deconditioned and you end up bed bound like I was. But it's in, at the same time, it's important to not over exert yourself because that will also make your symptoms worse.

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - So it's about managing that sweet spot in the middle where it's enough, but not too much, just the right amount.

Interviewer - Yeah, in contrast to CFS where rest is good for you, flat.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - OK.
Right. OK. So I'll give a basic overview, assuming there's nothing else you want to add to that last question.

Participant - OK. Yeah.

Interviewer - I'll give you a basic overview of the sections. If you are reminded of something, feel free to, to jump in and add anything.

Participant - Sure.

Interviewer - Section One was about your. your conditions, symptoms, onset, earliest instances and and the like.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Section 2 was about your device when you started using it. How you use it etcetera. Section 3 was how they interact. So what made you use the device? How it alerts you to symptoms and things that you have started doing or stopped doing as a result.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - And the last one is that little speculative thing about your ideal device?

Participant - Okey dokey.

Interviewer - All happy.

Participant - Great.

Interviewer - OK good. I will stop the recording then. If there's nothing to add.

Participant - OK.
