Interviewer - Come on Teams. There we go, right. OK, this is 20 questions in total.
The first section focuses on your conditions. So question one, what chronic mobility conditions do you have?

Participant - Um, EDS, um, Sjogren's syndrome and chronic fatigue.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you describe to me the symptoms of these conditions that you experience?

Participant - Um.
I'm hypermobile. Um, so um...
Joints are a bit unstable, so I get joint-joint pain and subluxate sometimes. Thankfully I don't fully dislocate.
And Sjogren's is an autoimmune condition, so um...
Chronic inflammation, which means I'm in pain all the time.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities these conditions have prevented you from being able to do?

Participant - Walking. I'm a power chair user. Um.
I feel like they've prevented me from doing most things at some point or another.
I'm struggling to...

Interviewer - Yeah, that's no problem.

Participant - Sort of place activities like specific examples, 'cause it's just like this is a lot of things.

Interviewer - OK, that's no problem at all. Thank you very much. That's more than enough. When is the earliest instance you can recall of your condition inhibiting your mobility?

Participant - About 2015.

Interviewer - Thank you very much.
You've not mentioned it in symptoms. Do you get an extended exhaustion PEM kind of thing? Post Exertional Malaise?

Participant - Uh, yeah, yeah.

Interviewer - Yeah. Can you give me examples of extended exhaustion after an activity?

Participant - It tends to kick in like not immediately the day after, but like...
The day after, the day after, like the day after next. But then I tend to get the post exertional malaise s*** kick in around then. Um...
Like for example, I-I tried to do like a, a gentle workout at the gym like...2 weeks ago.
And like, I think pain wise, I-I would only say like I'm back to normal within the past couple days. I've been feeling that pain for like over a week.
In terms of malaise, just...
I don't know it's hard to...
How do you descr-
Honestly, like fatigue is kind of just my default to such an extent that it kind of doesn't stand out in my brain to give examples sometimes. I don't know.

Interviewer - OK, that's no problem at all.

Participant - It's, it's been like a decade.

Interviewer - Yeah.
No, that's, that's completely understandable. I mean, again, if you can't pick out specific examples or you can't answer a question, that's no problem. Just say so by all means, OK? No, no pressure to answer every question.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - Can you give me examples of brain fog inhibiting your activities?

Participant - Ummm...
I guess, sometimes I like to watch TV shows with friends of mine or whatever.
Who's calling me?
I am not answering that call.
That is a spam call.

Interviewer - We love spam calls in the middle of study interviews.

Participant - Yeah, I like to watch TV shows with like friends of mine. Sometimes there's-there's certain because I've got ADHD as well and I will struggle to watch certain TV shows on my own, but like I'll find it easier to concentrate on with... other people.
Um...
Yeah, I sometimes.
Part of the difficulty I have with some of these TV shows is that I'm face blind and so I'm constantly getting confused about characters. No, I'm like, have we met this character? And I'm like, no, we, we that's like the main character we we've seen since the beginning of the show. I'm like...
Oh, right. Yeah.
Um.
But yeah, like cut, like this. I feel like I'm probably annoying my friends because I'm just like...
Why are they doing that? Because I've already forgotten what the plot point that's led to this point.

Interviewer - OK.
Thank you very much. Um...
OK, I'm going to read between the lines again.

Participant - That might not have been spam. Oops.

Interviewer - If you need a break to give to send out an important call, just say.

Participant - I'll call them back after.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you. Right. I'm going to read between the lines with the post exertional malaise, sleep disruption. I'm assuming that's a thing?

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Yeah. Can you give me examples of disruptions to your sleep schedule making your other symptoms worse?

Participant - Well, I don't know my sleep...
When I've already slept like 12 hours or something and I wake up in the morning...
And I'm still f****** tired.
I'll try and like push through whatever, but if it eventually reaches the point where I'm still tired then...
I've got to sleep during the day.
And by that point I'm clocking up over 12 hours of sleep, so of course I'm not going to sleep that night.
And then it just gradually shifts you more nocturnal sometimes.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much.

Participant - It's not, not really an example, but.

Interviewer - No, I mean again, how you give the answer and how you word it is still valuable on its own.
So thank you very much. Your second section starting now is about the device or application or whatever it is you use.
OK, so question one, what device or application do you currently use and when did you start using it or them?

Participant - I've got an Apple Watch. I think I got that about...
Oh, when did I get that?
Total guess, 2020?
Actually, it might be earlier than that.
So 2018, 2018.

Interviewer - OK. I'll go., we'll go with 2018 then, yeah.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - OK, thank you very much. Have you used anything previously or is this the first device?

Participant - And this is the first wearable I've had.

Interviewer - OK, thank you. How do you use this device or application?

Participant - Um, when I first got it, it was to be, to track sleep.
Since then I have switched to other apps that track my sleep instead. Nowadays I more use it for like exercise, more or less, to be honest, um.
Sometime, yeah...
Yeah...
Mostly for exercise, mostly when I work out.

Interviewer - OK, you said you use other apps to track your sleep. What are these applications sorry?

Participant - I went through a period of using the app Rise, more recently Pokémon Sleep.

Interviewer - OK, no problem at all. Is that what the, the one you use currently?

Participant - Yeah, totally.

Interviewer - Could you please include that in the answers so when I ask, for example, this most recent question, how do you use the device or applications? Can you provide an answer for the Apple Watch and for your Pokémon Sleep app please?

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - Since, since you use both.

Participant - So what are we? So is the criteria for this thing just like any kind of, I guess, digital thing that you use to help manage your health sort of symptoms?

Interviewer - So it, we, it's what we would describe in the lab as health trackers.

Participant - Right. OK.

Interviewer - Obviously in in the grand scheme of the industry, fitness trackers is both like the really niche area of stuff for exercise...

Participant - Mm.

Interviewer - ...but it can also apply to the wider area of keeping you fit and sleep trackers and things like devices that track how much water you drink...

Participant - Hmm.

Interviewer - ...come under that that umbrella. Unfortunately, there's not really a single, good term to encompass everything other than wearables...

Participant - Mm.

Interviewer - ...but not all wearables are applicable, so...

Participant - Right. OK. Yeah.

Interviewer - Apologies for the, for the confusion.
Um, but yes, OK, so... Next question, when do you use this device or application?

Participant - Umm, I...

Interviewer - So you, you said during exercise, but...

Participant - Yeah, I tend to try and make sure it's charged up and stuff if I know that I'm going to the gym. I have been wearing this more than usual recently just because like I said, I'm...post-op at the minute, so I'm probably sort of keeping an eye on health stuff more than I typically would. I use the app every night.

Interviewer - OK.
Um, so obviously you've answered this for the, the sleep app already, but how frequently do you use the device?

Participant - I'm gonna tell on myself in terms of how often I exercise now, aren't I?

Interviewer - I guarantee it's more than me, you're fine.

Participant - Honestly, I hadn't used this in quite a decent amount of time until recently.
Because I bought a gym membership recently. Um, so...
Over the past month?
I have exercised twice, but I have... I guess I have worn it about 3/4 of the month.

Interviewer - Okay. Thank you very much.
Right. So we're on to the third section now, which is your condition and these devices interacting, OK?

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - Excuse me. So can you give me examples of activities that caused your decision to use the device?

Participant - You-could you repeat that?

Interviewer - Can you give me examples of activities that caused yourS decision to use the device?

Participant - I'm finding the wording of that a little confusing.

Interviewer -  OK. Um, can you give me...examples before you started using the device that of, of activities that made you want to buy a device or use a application.

Participant -  Oh, OK, right. Um, like I said, I bought it first for sleeping.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - The sleep tracking, because I don't know, I'm, one of my special interests is sleep and most of the sleep apps tracked by just...having a phone on the bed and I just didn't find this satisfying enough.
The tracking. Um.

Interviewer - OK.
Is there anything else or?

Participant - Didn't give enough, didn't give me enough data.

Interviewer - Yeah.
Fair enough. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples-

Participant - Um.

Interviewer - Oh, sorry, were you still answering that previous question?

Participant - For anything else I guess...
Yeah, I guess I knew that it could be useful for just health, sort of more generally. Obviously I got a bit more cause than most to keep a closer eye on my health, I guess.

Interviewer - Mmm.

Participant - Um.
So I was a bit curious about that.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of times the device alerted you to overexertion?

Participant - Oh God. So I've discovered that my pulse during exercise reaches truly terrifying rates.
I don't know why I haven't had a heart attack yet.
Yeah.
Over exertion...
I'm getting caught up in my head again about specifics. Um...
So overexertion for me personally...
It's more often about the fatigue that I feel in my body, in my muscles. Um...

Interviewer - Mmm.

Participant - And it doesn't always reflect... in things like pulse and other things that wearables track.
So...
Whilst I can say that it's-it's-it's...
It would let me know...
Like it, for example, like I don't know...
Hmm...
Yeah.
I don't know.

Interviewer - OK, that's no problem at all.
Thank you very much anyhow.
And again, no pressure to answer specific questions at all.
So next question, can you give me examples of activities you started after using the device or application?

Participant - I've started after... but since using the device?

Interviewer - Yes.

Participant - Oh.
Like as a result of using the device application or just...?

Interviewer - No.
Just after.

Participant - Oh.
Well, exercise more generally, I guess. Um.
Things like swimming or going to the gym or whatever when I first was like, when I first became ill...
I think I...
I don't know. I don't. I don't know if I was just wasn't used to this new sort of baseline...
Because I was very um...
Obviously it hurts more. Your fatigue is worse after exercise...
And...
Sometimes that would go on for quite a prolonged period of time that I would mistake as "Ah, exercise is making things worse...for me overall", and so I kind of avoided the exercise earlier on...
Um...
Yeah, there's also a social side to this all. I'm a, I'm, like I said, I'm a powerchair user and I...
Live on benefits, more or less.
So there was definitely a long period...
Where, I would have been very scared to go to the gym or go swimming...
Because there's this belief that if you're a power chair user, you must be fully, fully paralyzed. And if you, if you are ambulatory to any extent, then you're a faker and somebody's going to f****** report you to the DWP or something.
So it's-it's-it's kind of happened more with my confidence, I guess...


Interviewer - OK.

Participant - As well. That's a very roundabout answer. I'm sorry.

Interviewer - No, no problem at all. Again, the way in which you answer a question is useful. We are not looking for specific methods. Roundabout answers are fine, OK?
Thank you very much. So can you give me examples of regular activities you've stopped participating in as a result of using the device?

Participant - I stopped participating in?

Interviewer - Mhm.

Participant - I can't think of anything.

Interviewer - OK, that's no problem.

Participant -Just, I just need you to see what's going on down here.

Interviewer - Oh, to be a cat and not be worrying about taxes.

Participant - Boo, taxes.

Interviewer - Oh God, I-I-I see you're having a much cosier time in this interview than I am then?

Participant - Yeah. Where are you? Oh, you said you're at home.

Interviewer - Um.
Yeah, I'm in the uncomfy office chair that makes me do work because it's uncomfy and I have no...

Participant - Boo. Oh, oh, oh, I see. I see. It motivates you to do work by virtue of making you uncomfortable, I see.

Interviewer - Yeah.
The ADHD is strong, um, and I have absolutely no pets whatsoever, so there's nothing fluffy to, to motivate me in that way at all.

Participant - Understood.
Well, at least work's getting done, I guess.

Interviewer - But hey-ho.
That's the hope.
Right, so this is...
This is the second to last question for this section. We're almost at the end of the study. Can you give me examples of activities you might have started were you not using the device or application?

Participant - I can't think of anything.

(brain fog means question 17 was not asked)

Interviewer - OK, that's no problem at all.
OK, so this is now the last section. 3 questions. These are more speculative.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So you don't have to keep it grounded in reality if you don't want to. So question, the first question of this section, what form would your ideal device or application take?

Participant - Um...
So honestly, the, the watch is not ideal 'cause I got like contact dermatitis from, from that before.
Um...
And the phone is not ideal because it doesn't track biometrics.
As well as movement...
I would like it to...
Hmm...
Because it's like, there is this impulse to say some kind of implant, isn't there? But also there is also some...
Benefit to being able to take the thing on and off as you desire.
Well, I think...
Even I couldn't think of anything...
That would make me stop doing a thing...
When you asked me earlier.
I think some form of implant would probably be fine. Just not... Oh, then again, I have MRI's a lot.
Sorry.

Interviewer - If, if you can't land on anything ideal, by all means rattle through several forms and how they would and wouldn't work for you if you want.

Participant - Yeah, 'cause obviously the...
The first thing that sort of springs to mind when you think of those kinds of things is like...
In the brain. Um...

Interviewer - Mmm.

Participant - But I'm highly dubious of, of Musk and his neuralink and all that. I don't know if I approve of all that, and I've had quite enough brain surgery to last me a lifetime.
Umm..
I wonder if you could have like a... a necklace.
Maybe, if there was a way that a necklace could also track biometrics.
Say by being connected to like...
A microchip or something that is made out of a non magnetic material.
So like when it's on, it's connected, it connects to the implant, like when you're wearing it and when you take it off, it disconnects.

Interviewer - Mmm.

Participant - And doesn't track.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - That could be cool.

Interviewer - So that's, that's a way of getting an implant to also be toggleable.

Participant - Yeah, maybe. And also, I think a necklace wouldn't cause contact dermatitis like the watch does.

Interviewer - Fair enough.
OK, thank you very much. Um, what functions would you remove?

Participant - What function would I remove?
From what?

Interviewer - For this ideal device, compared to devices that you know about or devices that you currently use, what functions would you remove? What is superfluous to what you think it should do?

Participant - Right, yes. Um...
Hmm...
Honestly, I wish it would only give me notifications about texts and calls, but then just leave everything else out.
I know there's a lot of things that just the screen is too small to...
Use the thing that it wants me to be able to use.
Like I'm scrolling through the apps on my watch and night sky is on here. I'm not going to look up at the stars using my Apple Watch.
That's, that's no use to me. I don't know.

Interviewer - Yeah, OK.

Participant - Yeah, that's probably it.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - I'm kind of a maximalist sometimes, so...

Interviewer - That's no problem. So, what functions would you add?

Participant - Hmm...
So assuming this is an implant thing, then I would assume it would also be possible to track blood pressure.
Um... As well as just pulse. Um...
Would it-...
I think, I think we could go. I don't know. Um...
I guess it would depend... I'm thinking about the medical feasibility of some of these things now.

Interviewer - You don't, you don't need to do that if you don't want to. You can preface something with "I don't know if this is feasible, but..." and then just say something wishy washy if you like.

Participant - I don't know if it can track things like nerve signals and stuff like that to give, for example, things like seizure warnings.

Interviewer - Mmm.

Participant - And...
I think that is a feature that I would like. I think that if you could track that and you were and it can track the cardiovascular side, then there's no reason why it, it's not giving you basically a sleep study's worth of information every night.
Because between like the EEG and the pulse and side- pressure side of things, that's and resps, like respiratory, that's, that's all the information that they, they track in a sleep study anyway really.

Interviewer - Mhm.

Participant - So it could definitely give much more rounded sleep info.
If that were possible to do.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - It would be nice.
On a like...
On a more like simple, more grounded level, like outside of the realm of like utopian possibilities.
I still haven't found an app...
That works particularly well, to be honest, for me.
In terms of like monitoring...
Fatigue, pain, symptoms...
Stuff like that. I know that there are some out there, but none of them I've really got along well with.
We haven't gamified that. That's what it is, I think. I think that all of the ones that exist for like symptom tracking and stuff, they're too medical. They're too medical still, and medical is just very boring and not good for neurodivergent people.

Interviewer - OK. Is there anything else?

Participant - I'll leave it there.

Interviewer - OK, so I'll give a quick run through of what each section was, just in case you're reminded of anything or want to add to anything.

Participant - Hmm.

Interviewer - So the first section was about your condition, specifically how it affects you and the symptoms. The second section was about your device, how you use it, when you use it, etcetera.

Participant - Mhm.

Interviewer - The third section was about these two things interacting, so activities you've started or stopped or-

Participant - (Alexa) This is a reminder. Take your meds. Just let me know you're done with the reminder.

Interviewer - OK, no problem. Um...

Participant - No, no, she's not done. She is not done.
(Alexa) This is a reminder. Take your meds. Just let me know you're done with the reminder.

Interviewer - The really funny thing is I'm gonna have to transcribe that.
Oh Gods, for the sake of the transcription, what-what extra device is that?

Participant - That is...
That is my Alexa.

Interviewer - That is Alexa. OK.

Participant - Stop.

Interviewer - Stop. OK, yeah.

Participant - We can't say the name that must not be said in this household.

Interviewer - It's, it's the Amazon one, OK?
Uh, that's gonna be... That's gonna be an amusing thing to transcribe, OK.
Section 3 was your condition and the device, how they interact and activities that you do or do not do as a result. And Section 4 was your speculative section.

Participant - Mhm.

Interviewer - Is there anything you'd like to add?

Participant - No, I can't think of anything.

Interviewer - OK, I'm going to stop the recording then, if that's all good.

Participant - Yup.
