Interviewer - -someone with symptoms trying to research the symptoms.

Participant - You need an assistant.

Interviewer - Oh, God, would that make it better, or would that just increase my cognitive load? Who knows.

Participant - Good question.

Interviewer - Right, so I'm just writing up the scale for the next one. This one uses like a numerical scale.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - So as you can see, number one is a full disagree.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - Two and three are obviously amounts of disagree...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - ...4 is neutral, 5 and six are amounts of agree and seven is full. Agree. OK?

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So a scale of one to seven. This is for the last week compared to your baseline.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - Again, considering baseline as before.
So question number one, my motivation is lower when I am fatigued.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - Seven.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - Exercise brings on my fatigue.

Participant - 4.

Interviewer - 4, I am easily fatigued.

Participant - 6.

Interviewer - 6.
Fatigue interferes with my physical functioning.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7.
Fatigue causes frequent problems for me.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7.
My fatigue prevents sustained physical functioning.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7, fatigue interferes with carrying out certain duties and responsibilities.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7, fatigue is among my three most disabling symptoms.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7.
And fatigue interferes with my work, family or social life.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - Seven. OK. Thank you very much.
OK, this next one, this is the last of the-the surveys before we get into the talking bit again, it's a little... numerical scale. It's a little bit quirky though, and it'll take me a second to type it up.

Participant - That's OK.

Interviewer - So this assesses your chances of falling asleep when you're not intending to.

Participant - Oh, interesting. OK.

Interviewer - It's called the Epworth Sleepiness Scale, which is wonderful name.

Participant - It is.

Interviewer - It isn't what we would call frequent. Sorry, Frequent? Recent.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - So it's got some... it uses scenarios and it's got some quirky wordings. I didn't write these, but... it is what it is, so yes, you've got the scale in there. This doesn't use a particular time frame, so it's just if this happens to you tomorrow, what do you think your chances of falling asleep would be?

Participant - OK, when the scale says dose, does it mean do is it a typo?

Interviewer - OK.
Oh, there's a typo in the first, in the first in the 0, so I just auto filled...

Participant - In all of them, actually, I think it's autocorrected it.

Interviewer - No, sorry. So on the document, it says Z for dozing.

Participant - Oh, go right. I'm with you. Would never doze, OK.

Interviewer - Yeah, yeah.
Unfortunately, unfortunately the first one is 0 would never dose and I read that and didn't question it.

Participant - That's all right, as long as we understand now, that's fine.

Interviewer - I'll-I'll correct it just for ease of use. There you go. That should be better. That should be better now.

Participant - Thank you.

Interviewer - Right. Yeah. So no particular time if this will happen to you tomorrow, what are the chances of so circumstance? One is sitting and reading, on a scale of 0 to 3.

Participant - OK.
1.

Interviewer - One, watching TV.

Participant - 1.

Interviewer - One, sitting inactive in a public place, for example, a theatre or a meeting.

Participant - Zero.

Interviewer - Zero, as a passenger in a car for an hour without a brake.

Participant - Zero.

Interviewer - Zero, lying down to rest in the afternoon.

Participant - Two.

Interviewer - Two, sitting and talking to someone.

Participant - Zero.

Interviewer - 0, Sitting quietly after lunch in brackets when you've had no alcohol.

Participant - 2.

Interviewer - Two and in a car while stopped in traffic.

Participant - Zero.

Interviewer - Zero.
OK, that's the surveys all done, amusingly with the-the last one in a car while stopped in traffic, it doesn't specify if you're the passenger or the driver.

Participant - It's such a, it's such a funny thing because I assume it's trying to assess, you know, how your condition effects you, but some of it comes down to like, I'm just someone that can't ever doze a) upright or b) in a public place like. And that's always been the case regardless of my symptoms. Yeah, it's interesting.

Interviewer - Yeah, some of them for me are like anxiety based. I'm never falling asleep in a meeting ever.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - And I enjoy driving. So unfortunately, well, fortunately, I won't be falling asleep doing that. So...

Participant - At least he gives you something to critique in your write up.

Interviewer - Yeah, yeah, yes, definitely.
I think there's a lot of little things, to be honest. This is quite an unknown area, so I'm-I'm making a lot of little... not errors shortcomings I suppose because I don't have countless smart people coming before me.

Participant - Mm-hmm.
Sure...

Interviewer - OK, main body of the interview now if you're happy to go ahead?

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - This is 20 questions split into four sections.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - The first one will be about your condition...

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - ...the second will be about the applications or devices that you use.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - The third one will be these things interacting and the 4th one at the end is quite short and it's like a little speculative sort of topic.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - So question number one, what chronic mobility conditions do you have?

Participant - I have pots POTS.
I have Ehlers danlos hypermobility type. I have chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia. Both diagnoses and small fibre neuropathy.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you describe to me the symptoms of these conditions that you experience?

Participant - Yeah, it's a whole range of things, so it's fatigue, dizziness when I am upright, I have, you know, various different types of pain, joint pain, muscle pain, nerve pain.
I struggle with brain fog as we've discussed already and unrefreshing sleep and a difficulty concentrating, which is sort of part of brain fog I would say. I also have, sort of like related issues with my digestive system and my bladder as well, and I have MCAS there. I have allergic reactions to things like foods and perfumes and things like that.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities these conditions have prevented you from being able to do?

Participant - I mean personal care, you know, washing myself and washing my hair, cooking a meal, going out of the house, socialising with friends, working.

Interviewer - OK, so I think it's fair to say generally impacting everything?

Participant - I would say so, yeah.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. When is the earliest instance you can recall of your condition inhibiting your mobility?

Participant - Probably my early 20s.

Interviewer - OK, you... Just to-to specify the wording on that, can you describe to me your-your earliest instance that you can recall?

Participant - Oh, sorry, I misunderstood.

Interviewer - No, no problem, no problem.

Participant - Yeah, I think I, it was a long time ago. So my memory is quite patchy, but I think I just remember, you know, difficulty walking, you know, feeling very tired.
And pain in my legs.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of extended exhaustion after an activity?

Participant - Yeah. So if I, you know, do something that, you know takes me beyond my limits. So for example, if I go to a hospital appointment where I'm out of the house for, you know, a couple of hours and I'm upright and... I will feel very unwell afterwards for anything from a couple of days to a week, depending on how you know, taxing it's been.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Just on that topic, would you describe yourself as having post exertional malaise or does your fatigue not to behave in that way?

Participant - I would. Yes.

Interviewer - You would? OK. Thank you very much.
Now, can you give me examples of brain fog inhibiting your activities please?

Participant - Yeah. Yeah, yesterday I received a letter in the post, and it's like a, you know, an A4 sheet of paper of, you know, paragraphs. And I wasn't able to read it. So I had to put it aside. And I still haven't read it because I haven't had the-the capacity to do so. Do you want more examples or just one?

Interviewer - As many as you're willing to-to provide.

Participant - I have carers come in and this morning and the carer asked me at the end if there was anything else that I wanted her to do and I said no thank you and then she left and I realised that there was something that I had wanted her to help me with but I hadn't been able to recall it in the moment.
I don't know if I can give you, like a specific example of this off the top of my head, but because it happens all the time, but I'll be talking to someone and I'm trying to express a thought and I can't find the right words, that happens quite often. I do sometimes say the wrong word, but it's more often that I just can't find the word that I want. So that happen. When I make phone calls and things I have to plan them ahead of time, so I have to write myself like a bullet point list of what the things that I want to say are or. what I want to ask, or sometimes like what you know, like what the actual objective is, so I can make sure that I leave with-with those things actually having been answered. And so yeah.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. I have a feeling I thought of something to ask halfway through that I can't remember it.

Participant - We can come back to it if it comes back, yeah.

Interviewer - So we'll-we'll move on and maybe I'll remember it.
Oh, would you... So this inability or this lack of ability to recall specific examples, would you describe the brain fog... being a component in why you're unable to do so?

Participant - Yes, absolutely.

Interviewer - And would you say that it's so frequent that individual examples don't stick out it all just kind of melds into this memory soup sort of thing.

Participant - Yeah, that's absolutely it.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of disruptions to your sleep schedule making your other symptoms worse?

Participant - Yeah. And so because of my MCAS, I have allergic responses and one of them is to my menstrual cycle. So twice a month I get these allergic reactions that disturb my sleep. Sorry. Can you repeat the question just so I make sure that I stay on track?

Interviewer - Can you give me examples of disruptions to your sleep schedule making your other symptoms worse?

Participant - Right. OK. So yeah, when that happens, all of my symptoms get worse the next day or for several days afterwards. Anything that disturbs my sleep, so if it's, like, really hot in the summer and that will then affect my symptoms.
And so sometimes it's things like that that aren't, you know, not really in my control. But sometimes it's things that are in my control. Like if I go to bed too late because I'm watching TV or something, that will also impact on my symptoms the next day. And it's it, I can't really like pick out specific symptoms that get worse. It's just everything.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. That is the end of Section 1.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So now focusing on devices or applications.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - So this can include sleep trackers, hydration trackers, heartbeat monitors, fitness trackers, etcetera.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - If it monitors your health getting it's included.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - What device or application do you currently use and when did you start using them?

Participant - I have a Garmin at the moment that I have used for probably about three or four years and before that I had a Fitbit for maybe a couple of years before that.

Interviewer - OK. Do you recall the specific model just to specify it's a Garmin Smart watch, right?

Participant - Yes. And it's a venue. I think it's a two and the Fitbit, I don't know if I could recall off the top of my head, but it was like a narrow one.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Were there any previous tools before the Fitbit or was that the 1st?

Participant - I don't believe so. I think that was the first one.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. How do you use the device?

Participant - It changes, so it hasn't been like static the whole time. When I first got the Fitbit, I was quite focused on looking at my sleep and my heart rate. And then as I've had the Garmin, sometimes I do use it to track my hydration, and my sleep, although not recently, either of those two. I mainly use it to track my heart rate, and Garmin has like a stress measure, which is to do with your heart rate variability. I track that one. I also track my menstrual cycle and how that is correlating with my other metrics and actually if you hold on, I'll just have a quick look and make sure that I'm not missing anything in my app.
So, so body battery which is, you know, an indication of my energy. I have in the past used it to track my steps. It's not something I'm particularly focusing on at the moment.
So yeah, mainly I'd say it's the heart rate, the body battery and the stress are the kind of three key ones at the moment.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. When do you use this device?

Participant - All the time.

Interviewer - So permanent wear, yeah?

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - OK. And like that answers the next question of how frequently, although I will slightly augment that question, how frequently do you check the device?

Participant - Multiple times a day, I always check it first thing in the morning and then I will check it...it will either be that I'm having symptoms and I'll check it to see what it's kind of telling me that might match up with that. Or perhaps I'm thinking about how to plan my day or whether to do something or not do it. So yeah, I check it all throughout the day really.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. So that's the end of Section 2.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - So on to Section 3 now. Question 12 of 20. So we're more than halfway.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - Can you give me examples of activities that caused your decision to use the device or application?

Participant - Yeah. So I was aware that I was having issues. This is before I got diagnosed with pots. I was aware that I was having issues with my heart rate. I actually got it to track my steps, but I tracked my heart rate as well. And so I was able to kind of use it for that.
And also I then when I did get diagnosed as pots, went on medication and so it was then helpful for me to track what impact the medication was having on my heart rate as well.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of times the device alerted you to overexertion?

Participant - Yeah. So it does it in a few ways. So I have a heart rate alert so that if my heart rate goes above a certain you know number of beats per minute, it will alert me. And I have that set for at rest, but also during exercise. So it helps me keep within a certain kind of limit, if I'm exercising and sometimes it will go off, you know, if I'm just quite stressed and then, you know, that's a kind of signal to me to try and do something about that.
Can you just repeat the question again? I'm so sorry.

Interviewer - No problem, no problem at all. Can you give me examples of times the device alerted you to overexertion?

Participant - OK. Yeah. And so then also the next day, if I've overexerted myself, I will be able to see that reflect in my stats. And so I mean, it doesn't always tell me things that I don't already know, but sometimes it reinforces things that I am feeling or thinking are... the situation.

Interviewer - OK. So in terms of when you're being alerted, it's both in the moment with the device popping up and saying you're doing too much...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - ...but also on reflection, like a confirmation tool.

Participant - Yeah, I would say so, yeah.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities you started after using the device? If there are none, just say there are none.

Participant - I don't think there's anything that I started after using it, no?

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of regular activities you stopped participating in as a result of using the device?

Participant - I'm not sure there are any of those either.

Interviewer - OK, no problem. Can you give me examples of activities you might have started were you not using the device?

Participant - No, I don't think so.

Interviewer - No? It's no problem. Thank you very much. It's a really good way of getting through the questions quickly, I must say.

Participant - I'm not trying to do that, I promise.

Interviewer - No, it's fine. It's fine. I-I realise that some of these questions are circumstantial. Yeah. And obviously fatigue takes, all, all sorts of forms. So for some people, some questions just don't apply.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - And that's completely fine and expected, obviously. Can you give me examples of events that demonstrate your decision to choose this device?

Participant - Demonstrate my decision to use the device. Yeah, I think it's really helped me confirm things that I'm feeling or thinking about. For example, is this dosage of the medication right for me?

Interviewer - Mm-hmm.

Participant - And sometimes, you know, I might be feeling a certain way about that, and then I can look at my stats and see whether they, you know, agree or not. I think it's helped me with my exercise to help make sure that I'm able to do that kind of safely within my limits.
And... Sorry, I'm so sorry. I'm gonna have to ask you to repeat the question again.

Interviewer - No problem at all. I mean like-

Participant - I get halfway through my sentence. Then I realised I've forgotten what we're talking about.

Interviewer - Like I said, I'm symptomatic as well. There's absolutely no shame in asking for this at all. Can you give me examples of events that demonstrate your decision to choose this device?

Participant - OK. Yeah.
I also get feedback on like things that I've eaten, for example, and how they've affected me and that's really helped me to... kind of hone in on where the problem areas were in my diet and even things like mealtimes as well.
And how-how that you know relates to what time I take my medication and it's been helpful in that sense as well.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Final section now, just three questions in this one, what form would your ideal device take or application?

Participant - I think I'm quite happy with it as a watch as I seen that's what you're asking, right?

Interviewer - Mm-hmm.

Participant - Yeah. Yeah. I don't really like the rings. And I've seen, like, there's one that's an armband that is not really my-my thing. So I'm quite happy with it as a watch. And I am quite happy with the app on my phone as well.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. What functions would you remove?

Participant - It's a really good question and you might have to give me a minute to think about it.

Interviewer - No problem. You can take a minute to look through the device if you like.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Obviously some people find it very difficult to remember functions that they don't use.

Participant - Yeah, that's such a good point. So I can give you an example actually, one of the reasons that I don't track my sleep is because it was just always telling me that I'd had a bad night's sleep and that wasn't very helpful and it was giving me very, very generic sleep tips. Like I don't... I can't even remember because it's so long since I've used it, but it was things like, you know, "try turning the lights off before you go to bed" and it's like, oh, you know, "try not using your screen before you go to bed." And by that point, you know, I'd already implemented all of those kinds of things. I just found it a little bit patronising, but also just not helpful. Like, it's not helpful to wake up every morning and see that you slpet badly, like you know. And there wasn't, you know, I just didn't find the information very useful. So it's not necessarily that I would, I'd probably remove the helpful tips or make that an option that you could kind of opt in and out of. And maybe you can, maybe I just never got that far. I don't know that I would remove it because other people might find it useful. But yeah, maybe the ability to kind of toggle it on and off.

Interviewer - OK. So just to clarify on that sleep baseline, it's not adjustable and it never self adjusted to what you were baseline of a good night was?

Participant - No.

Interviewer - It just it was comparing you to some baseline that you were never informed of and have no control over I'm assuming?

Participant - Oh yeah, that was my experience of it.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. What functions would you add?

Participant - In an ideal world, I would love to be able to monitor my blood pressure through it. I am supposed to monitor my-my blood pressure daily and I don't because I find the, you know, the monitor a bit of a pain to use.
So that's something I would add I think.
The I- so I think that my watch has the ability to do your oxygen levels, but I think it can only do it overnight and I think that it drains the battery so I don't have it switched on and I've never used it, but that, if I was able to kind of monitor that all the time I would find that quite helpful.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Right. So that's all of the questions. I'll go through a quick run through of each section and if you'd like to add anything you can.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So section one was about your condition, Section 2 was about your device.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - Or devices, and Section 3 was about the interactions of them and the examples of certain things...

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - ...like the-the activity alert for example.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - And Section 4 was your speculation on what your ideals would be and what you would change.

Participant - Yeah, I think that's probably it. The only other thing that I would mention, I don't know which question it really fits with...

Interviewer - Mm-hmm.

Participant - ...but I've actually found it quite helpful for being able to visualise how my emotions affect my symptoms as well. So like if I've had like a really stressful day or if something or someone has upset me, I can see that reflected in my stress results and obviously there's quite a lot of stuff around the interplay between you know your physical symptoms and your psychological symptoms and-and you know how they interact and-and-and I found that quite interesting.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. That's actually a really good point. Why didn't I think of that? No, no, jokes aside, thank you very much.

Participant - That's OK.

Interviewer - Is there anything else you'd like to talk about?

Participant - No, not that I can think of.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. I'll stop the recording and then we'll finish up.