Interviewer - Right, OK. That's all started. So question number one, do you have problems with tiredness? Again, in the last month compared to your baseline.

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse than usual. Do you need to rest more?

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse than usual. Do you feel sleepy or drowsy?

Participant - Umm...
Worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual. Do you have problems starting things?

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse than usual, do you lack energy?

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse than usual. Do you have less strength in your muscles?

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse than usual. Do you feel weak?

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse. Do you have difficulties concentrating?

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse, do you make slips of the tongue when speaking?

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse than usual. Oops. I've put 2 answers in the same one, never mind. Right. Do you find it more difficult to find the right word?

Participant - Worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual. How is your memory?

Participant - Worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual. OK. Thank you very much. That is survey one of three done.
Where's the others gone? There they are.
OK, so this next one is the last week instead of the last month.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - It uses a numerical scale, which I'll just type up quickly in the chat for you.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - OK, so it uses that scale, obviously 2-3 and 5 and 6 are intermediate kind of values.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - And yes, this is just a some statements that I'll read out and then, give me a number. And again, it's the last week compared to your baseline.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - So my motivation is lower when I am fatigued.

Participant - Sorry, I'm, discalculia kicking in.

Interviewer - No problem.

Participant - Errr... 5.

Interviewer - Five, exercise brings on my fatigue.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - Seven, I am easily fatigued.

Participant - 6.

Interviewer - 6, fatigue interferes with my physical functioning.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7, fatigue causes frequent problems for me.

Participant - 5.

Interviewer - 5.
My fatigue prevents sustained physical functioning.

Participant - 6.

Interviewer - 6, fatigue interferes with carrying out certain duties and responsibilities.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7, fatigue is among my three most disabling symptoms.

Participant - 5.

Interviewer - Five, helps if I press the key. Fatigue interferes with my work, family or social life.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7.
OK.
Lovely, lovely. And the final one. This doesn't have a set scale. It's just if this circumstance were to happen, what are the chances that you would accidentally fall asleep?
So I'll just again type up this scale in the chat for you.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - This one is a little, little bit quirky. I think it's the oldest of the three and it's, it uses the, well, the descriptions of the scenarios can be a little bit amusing, we'll say, and some of them are non specific.

Participant - No worries.

Interviewer - So if you're a little bit umm... confused?

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - Just, just mention it, just ask.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So it's that scale...

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - ...zero to three and again it's just some, some, what's the word... scenarios?

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So scenario #1, sitting and reading.

Participant - 3.

Interviewer - Three, watching TV.

Participant - Sorry, my phone just decided that me speaking was me saying Siri and absolutely wasn't.

Interviewer - No problem.

Participant - I didn't even know I had that turned on. I'm like, that's right. Sorry. Go again.

Interviewer - Watching TV.

Participant - 1.

Interviewer - One, sitting inactive in a public place, for example, a theatre or a meeting.

Participant - Zero.

Interviewer - Zero, as a passenger in a car for an hour without a break.

Participant - 1.

Interviewer - One, lying down to rest in the afternoon.

Participant - 3.

Interviewer - 3, sitting and talking to someone.

Participant - Zero.

Interviewer - 0. Sitting quietly after lunch brackets when you've had no alcohol.

Participant - 1.

Interviewer - One, in a car while stopped in traffic.

Participant - Zero.

Interviewer - Zero. OK, lovely. That's all of the surveys done. I think, what's amusing the specification of no alcohol and the last one... it doesn't say whether you're it doesn't say whether you were the driver or the passenger.

Participant - Yeah, it's interesting.

Interviewer - It just says you were in a car.

Participant - I was like, I'm assuming that I'm driving, in which case I was sitting there like, yeah, I do love that. It's like, if you're really p****d, are you likely to have a wee snooze?

Interviewer - Yeah, yeah. If-if I'm being honest, I genuinely don't know if it means when you're the driver or the passenger. I-I can't tell. I can't parse it properly.

Participant - Oh, I mean, I've tried to be a good passenger as well. I'm like, no, if I'm the passenger, my job is to entertain the driver. I have to sit there like the court jester being like...

Interviewer - Oh, God, yeah. They're, they're quite amusing those ones.
Right, OK. So we now have the main body of the interview.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - This is split into four sections. The first one is about your conditions.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - The second one is about the devices.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - The third one is about how these two things interact and then the 4th one is just a short speculative...session. Session? Section, at the end just with a couple of questions.

Participant - Yup.

Interviewer - So that's, that last section's much shorter than the rest of them.
So again, you can say that a question doesn't apply to you if you like, take as much time as you need as well. I'm not going to hurry you up for an answer or anything. So- oh, and if memory or brain fog... interferes and you think of an answer to an earlier question, feel free to loop back whenever you'd like.

Participant - Perfect.

Interviewer - Perfect, thank you very much. Right question one, what chronic mobility conditions do you have?

Participant - So I have endometriosis and I have ehlers Danlos syndrome.

Interviewer - Thank you. Can you describe to me the symptoms of these conditions that you experience?

Participant - So endometriosis I get chronic pelvic pain, which spreads down my left sciatic nerve.
I used to have a lot of pain most days. It was worse around my menstrual cycle and I would get a lot of fatigue because of the pain, basically it was... you know. EDS, I've, I've, I've had all my life, but it got a lot worse following my 2nd endometriosis surgery I got a, an infection in-in one of the surgical wounds and turns out that that is one of the things that can make EDS a lot worse. So that was really quite debilitating. That's where a lot of my fatigue came from and that I was suddenly not able to, you know, walk to the bus stop or... yeah. Really, really, do more than one thing in a day where I used to go out and, you know, go for a run in the morning, do a full day at work and go into a class in the evening. I was massively reduced in what I could do.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities this condition has prevented you from being able to do?

Participant - I basically stopped doing any sort of... cardio activities, like, I have to be really gentle with what I'm doing. So I can I can do a walk, but I need to like stop halfway because I'm like "oh, I need to get back." So it's a lot less than I used to do. I still swim, but that's pretty much it. I don't, I can't run or things like that anymore. It's just, it's too much for my body and in terms of things like strength training, which I was really getting into, because alongside the fatigue my-my, my joint function reduced massively. I get subluxations, so partial dislocations, really easily in my hands and my wrists. So yeah, a lot of my...my-my exercise-y type hobbies basically just had to go by the wayside.
Yeah, I think that's...

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. When is the earliest instance you can recall of your conditions inhibiting your mobility?

Participant - Probably about eight years ago. That's when I was really aware of, like, the-the fatigue aspect of it really kicking in. Before that it was like, oh, I've got, you know, I get bad periods or oh, my joints are-are a bit lax. Oh, that's fine. But yeah, it's about 8 years ago that properly.

Interviewer - So that was 2017 then.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. I'm not been able to read between the lines on this. Do you get extended exhaustion or some sort of post exertional malaise behaviour?

Participant - Yeah, I got like... like what most people would say, like the DOMS, the delayed onset muscle soreness. For me that lasts days and it can be like quite severe.
And yeah, like in terms of like recovering, I will usually need to rest for the fatigue, for-for a good couple of days once I've done something. Something in that case, but one of the things I refuse to give up is going to, to gigs, going to, to live music.
It's just one of the things that yeah, it is one of the things in my life that just brings me utter joy and it just completely wrecked me. But I refuse to stop doing it. But yeah, if I've, if I've gone to a gig, I'm like, that's me for a good couple of days, that's...

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. I didn't actually ask the question, but you did you, you answered it anyway, so thank you. Likewise on the gigs if I'm perfectly honest.

Participant - We-we all need these things like that make us light up inside. Seriously.

Interviewer - Yeah, exactly. Can you give me examples of brain fog inhibiting your activities?

Participant - I think the most frustrating one is that... I'm I-I really enjoy conversation and I'm-I'm a researcher, so it really frustrates me when I can't...
Sometimes it's not thinking of the right word, but just not be able to express myself properly because it's just, I can't make my brain cooperate. That is immensely frustrating, and it's still despite the fact that I work in equalities and I do a lot of work around accessibility and disability, I still feel like saying "oh brain fog" when I say it, it sounds like it's excuse. For everybody else it's totally OK. But when I apply it to myself, I'm just like, "Oh my God. Get, get yourself together. You need to do this. You need to be a professional", but yeah...

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of disruptions to your sleep schedule making your other symptoms worse?

Participant - I wish I had a proper sleep schedule.
Because I'm neurodivergent I, if I, if I sort of get into a hyper focus or you know I'm just in the swing of writing or researching, I will easily stay up till 3-4 in the morning.
And then I go to bed and I'm wired and I don't sleep till about 5 and then that's, you know, it just has such a knock on effect the next day that my ability to control... control? Not control, but my ability to... do stuff while having pain symptoms is reduced like I-I just can't cope with pain and joint laxity as much as I normally can, and the fatigue is just 10 times what it would be because I've...
I've not got enough hours of sleep and I've done them at a weird time of day where it's disturbed sleep. So yeah, that's, I know that it's a bad thing to. I did it last night. I know it's a rubbish thing to do, but I do it because my neurodivergent brain is just like...
"We need to follow the dopamine", yeah.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. What device or application... Sorry, I should say that's the end of the first section.

Participant - Yep.

Interviewer - So we're on to the-the device section now, what device or application do you use for these conditions?

Participant - So I use an Apple Watch now. I've used that for the last year. Yeah, previous to that, it was a Fitbit.

Interviewer - OK, when did you? Uh, sorry, you about the last year you said?

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Yeah. When did you use the, start using the Fitbit before the-the Apple Watch.

Participant - 2016-15-16?

Interviewer - So...

Participant - Probably quite a while ago.

Interviewer - From before the onset of your fatigue?

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - How do you use these, this device?

Participant - So I really like that I can monitor my sleep quality.
Prior to-to doing that, or if you know I'm not wearing it, I'm just like, oh, oh, I was in bed for eight hours. It doesn't mean I was actually getting... I was a) actually asleep or b) it was decent quality sleep. So yeah, I can see that I, you know, even if when I am asleep, I'm not getting... proper R.E.M. You know, restorative sleep.
I used to use it a lot more for step counting.
For a while I had quite sort of... I don't know quite sad relationship with I guess because I used to be very active and now I'm much less active. I had to switch off the things that like the reminder to move. It's like mate, I know, I'd love to move, it's not happening. So yeah, I-I...
You know, I've-I've brought down all the things like, you know, your step goal and stuff because I kind of think 10,000 is just pulled out of the air anyway. Probably. It's probably not based on solid research. So yeah, I-I-I halved that and... that feels like a bit more of a-a reasonable goal, and sometimes I have trouble making anything like that, but yeah, monitoring how well I'm sleeping with how much I feel able to do without destroying myself.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you. When do you use the device?

Participant - So pretty much all the time.
There's usually like, I don't know, a half day or a night per week that I haven't charged it, so it... isn't functioning, but I'm pretty much all the time.

Interviewer - OK, just to put a little different aspect on that question.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - When do you check it?
How often in the day or at specific points in the day or anything like that?

Participant - Yeah, I tend to check it when I first wake up in the morning to see how well I've slept.
I sometimes don't do that. If I... I won't remember to do it if I feel all right, I guess. It's-it's when I wake up and go "Oh, God!" That's when I-I will check and be like, "Oh, OK. Well, that explains it." And I will look in the evening. You know, once I've done the things I need to do in the day and go "Oh, OK. You know, I actually walked a fair bit more. I did a fair bit more..."
If I have, I'll check it during the day. If I've been doing activities that I've, I feel that my heart rate's increasing.
I didn't used to be particularly aware of my heart rate, but... I've had COVID like four Times now, and I'm aware of how much it affects my-my heart rate, so I'm just a bit more aware of that now.
I also take asthma medications that can do weird things as my pulse so, yeah.
Usually like beginning and end of the day. But if-if things are weird, I will check in during the day.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. So you've answered, how frequently do you use it as well. So that's the end of the second section.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - Third section now is those two things interacting.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - Can you give me examples of activities that caused you a decision to use the device?

Participant - Umm...
I mean, sleeping isn't really an activity, is it? I really, yeah, the fact that it monitors my sleep, my sleep quality is really helpful. But yeah, because I'm not doing anything like as much like, exercise and in direct commas like I-I don't go 'running' for example anymore. Using a wearable device and just seeing like how much it adds up when I'm just wandering around campus or things like that. Like for a while I-I was using Strava alongside it and I was literally monitoring "Look, I went for a walk... around Sainsbury's."

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - Anything. Like my goals very much changed. So yeah, I do find it really interesting to look at it after I've been a gig or a festival. I'm like, Oh my goodness like...
Yeah. How-how much, how much exercise is involved in just dancing.

Interviewer - OK, thank you. Can you give me examples of times the device has alerted you to over exertion?

Participant - So yeah, it doesn't...it doesn't actually alert me to overexertion because I've got everything set so much further down. Yeah It doesn't quite have that capacity, umm, feature set, y'know? But yeah, it doesn't really do it, it just relies on me keeping an eye out and going "Oh that's, I know myself that that's-that's a bit much."

Interviewer - Yeah, OK. I mean, the aspect of looking at it and, and it's alerting you by you looking back on something and going oh, that's a bit too much.

Participant - OK. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Interviewer - That does also count...

Participant - Hmm.

Interviewer - ...even though it's not obviously the intuitive...

Participant - OK, cool.

Interviewer - ...initial thing. So yeah, if there's any specific examples you can remember of getting to the end of the day and looking back at it and going "Oh wow, that was a lot", then that counts as well.

Participant - Hmm.
Yeah, I think it's, if it's things like when I'm, when I'm away from-from home, away from my usual thing like so when I'm down in London, for example, that's where my research is based.
And pretty much every day that I was out doing my field work, I was getting back to my friends that I was staying out and going. "Oh, I'm going to feel that I'm going to feel that tomorrow, and I have to go and do field work again tomorrow." And because it's-it's outside of my usual routine...

Interviewer - Mmm.

Participant - ...so I was just like, "oh, but I'm just walking to the tube" and "I'm, oh, I'm just walking to the site" and "I'm just doing that" and how it all added up, I wasn't, I wasn't as aware as I would be in my sort of familiar surroundings.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities you started after using the device?

Participant - Oh, that's a tricky one I feel like...
Actually, no. Yeah, outdoor swimming.
And like pool swimming, but mostly, but mostly sea swimming.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - That was part of the decision to, to go the Apple Watch because it was like I actually trust that it's waterproof. And yeah, I really wanted to-to be able to, because that's pretty much my-my only exercise outlet these days. I wanted to see like, you know, how-how that was contributing to, to things. So yeah.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of regular activities you stopped participating in as a result of using the device?

Participant - I don't know if it was like so much directly a result of using the device, but...
Mm-hmm.
So I-I used to live in in Edinburgh, which is it's very hilly, but other than that it's, it's quite a sort of walkable city in lots of ways and I used to... I used to do a lot of walking like, you know, like I could get the bus or I could just walk. It'll take the same time.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - And being able to sort of correlate... flares in my symptoms with saying
"Actually you know what? You're pushing yourself to do stuff that you used to be able to do and that you feel like on some level you should still be able to do despite the fact that you know that you have become more disabled."
So I think having that proof almost, that like, you know the device is capturing this information. So I'm like, "Oh my God, I feel wrecked." And to be able to look at and go "Yeah, mate, that's because you-you walked up the hill and your-your BP was up to 126. No wonder you feel wrecked."
So yeah, it was it was, it was useful to sort of go "Oh, I'm not just being a drama queen" or something or, you know, this, it's, it's real. Like my body is, my vital signs are actually correlating with this as well as... fatigue, which I think I find can be quite a sort of nebulous... and like difficult to quantify thing?

Interviewer - OK. So it's more in the... the day-to-day how you get about places?

Participant - Mm-hmm.
Yeah, yeah.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities you might have started were you not using the device?

Participant - I think I would be more likely to still push myself to do things like, yes, your sort of day-to-day stuff like I was mentioning. Like walk places rather than getting public transport or take the stairs instead of the lift and oh God, you know when you say something out loud and you're like, "Oh, that is that is just... all of the internalised ableism right there."

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - But yeah.
Yeah, I think like I know what my EDS is like and I know that doing things like trying to go running would be a terrible idea. I, if I didn't have this sort of... evidence, this sort of backup from-from a wearable device... I fully think that's the sort of thing I would just be like, you know, "Go on, do it, do it anyway. You-you know, you've no reason not to. You totally should."

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - So yeah, it's-it-it really...it helps me to... visualise, I guess and quantify and say "Look, nah. Your body's saying very clearly this is this is difficult for me."

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - Yeah. I like graphs. I like things that I can see as opposed to just being like...I-I know the difference between fatigue and "Oh, I'm a bit tired", but I-I can be really harsh to myself and be like, "Oh, you're just being you're just being a wuss", ugh, gross, yeah.

Interviewer - Yeah.
Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of events that demonstrate your a decision to choose this device, or indeed the previous device?

Participant - Well, the previous device like I-I had so many different Fitbits because I kept, they kept just like dying on me in new and exciting ways, like things would just fall apart or stop functioning and it feels like is this, is this like built in because I would contact the company and be like "Hey this thing is not working" and they'd just be like "Cool we'll just send you a new one." Oh okay. Cool. Thanks. I don't want to spend any more money but like wow Okay.
And also my-my, I was getting like an allergy reaction to wearing it like where the-the wearable sits on my skin. In fact, it was very much like, "No, that's a you problem" like I don't think it is lots of people seem to be experiencing this.
And I haven't had that with the Apple Watch. I was like, I know Apple are not a friendly company. They're quite a big evil conglomerate, but they... the devices seem to last longer. They don't seem to have the same like allergy thing.
And they had good ratings in terms of their waterproofness so... I might have gone off piece from the question there, sorry.

Interviewer - No, it's no problem. Like I said, there is no off-off piece really. So it's more of a, the transfer from Fitbit to the Apple Watch was more of a practical decision in-in terms of reliability, yeah.

Participant - Yeah, reliability and yeah, like saying I do still want to be using wearable tech to monitor my energy levels and you know, yadda yadda, but ideally one that isn't making me try and tear my skin.

Interviewer - Fair enough. A minimum requirement I think.

Participant - Right? Right.

Interviewer - Thank you very much. Right, that's the end of Section 3.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - So it's just the short little speculative section at the end now. Can you give- oh, no, that's the one I just read. Thank you, brain. What form would your ideal device take?

Participant - I quite like the fact that it's, you know, ideally I do like, you know, I-previously to wearing wearable tech. I wore a watch, so it feels quite normal for me. That's like, yeah, that's fine. Ideally, it's such a silly one because I'm hyper mobile. I often press like the little button on the side of it when I don't mean to because my wrist bends that far back just normally, so yeah, in my shiny ideal world, just like a watch. That's great. But with the buttons on the side that...
Or the choice just to change where things were so that, yeah, my, my dodgy joints aren't... changing settings without my knowledge.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Just a note, you have the, so then you have the hypermobile flavour of EDS?

Participant - Yes, yes.

Interviewer - And you have hypermobile, have hypermobility and the symptoms of that that go with, correct?

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - OK, good. Good, because that contributes to fatigue as far as I'm aware. So I think that's-

Participant - I'm really bad at not specifying. I'm like, oh, actually this is the sort of thing that it's good to specify.

Interviewer - If anything, I can say "Hey, someone not quite remembering to mention the-the boundaries of their condition is brain fog and memory issues."

Participant - Right, right?

Interviewer - So it's-it's-it's not an uncommon thing in this study at all...

Participant - Hmm.

Interviewer - ...to have something come up later and go "Oh wait you have that?" It's completely fine.

Participant - Yeah. No, I can imagine people like, oh, yeah, no, I didn't mention when we meant to.

Interviewer - Yeah, I mean, I've done the same. I've not mentioned something that I was meant to at the start and whatnot. So we're all as bad as each other. It's fine.

Participant - It's-it's true.

Interviewer - What functions would you remove?

Participant - Umm. Any of the things that are really pushing it to be like "Get fitter!" Like I see the benefit of like the reminders to move, but for me that was... it was a reminder that I had become significantly more disabled and it just hurt to be honest. It made me quite sad and I think there is... like disability is neutral. It's not a bad thing to be disabled, but when your symptoms have changed quite dramatically and you, I think there's a period of mourning, for like the-the things that you used to be able to do and the way that your life used to be. And for me that just was quite a painful reminder.
I used to have a very active job and now my job is mostly sitting down in-in a, you know, in an office chair especially designed for my dodgy joints to support it in different positions. You know, none of this used to be considerations that I had to make. So yeah, I would, I would like to remove the functions that... assume that I am a... non disabled, non chronically ill person.

Interviewer - OK, so to...
To reword it, would you say that you would like to... be able to repurpose the device so that it's not treating you as a fit person who wants to get fitter?

Participant - Yes. Yeah.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. Thank you very much. And last but not least, what functions would you add?

Participant - To be honest, like I don't use half the functionality on the damn thing like...
Better battery life, probably, and partly that was just me being cheap and not buying a model with better battery life. But yeah, I would, I would use more of its functionality, like its GPS or using it and start like carting my phone around to listen to music if I wasn't like, "Oh man, it's just going to munch through the battery." So yeah.
That's the main thing, to be honest.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - Yeah, just like, oh, and possibly a bit more like, difficult to break. Like, I put a screen protector on it. But like, I'm...
Yeah.
I-I-I'm not like diagnosed with.... anything of, I forgot the word, clumsiness generally, but yeah, I've been told that they're strong, strong, indicating symptoms of those sorts of things. Like, yeah, I'm... I will just bang into things and it's-it's just not uncommon of me to like, smack the outside of my arm off like a wall. And I'm like "I spent so much money on that Apple Watch. Is it OK?" So yeah. But again, it's-it's the planned obsolescence. I think that they've built into these things.

Interviewer - OK, lovely. Thank you very much. So I'm just going to give a quick run over of each section again...

Participant - Mhmm

Interviewer - ...just in case there's anything you'd, you'd like to bring up. So section one was about your condition, the, so, the conditions, you have, the symptoms that you have and how they affect your life.
Section #2 was about your device, how you use it, when you use it and your previous devices as well.
Section 3 was about how these things interact. So why you started using the device, what it does in relation to your conditions.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - Um, things you may have started or stopped as a result, and Section 4 was the speculative section about your ideal device.

Participant - Yeah. Cool. No, I don't think there's anything else I want to add.

Interviewer - OK.
Lovely. Lovely. Thank you very much. I will stop the recording then.