Interviewer - Come on Teams, you can do it. There we go.

Participant - There you go.

Interviewer - Right question, #1. So in the last month, do you have problems with tiredness?

Participant - Yes, ummm, worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - I'll repeat everything back just to make sure I've heard it right.

Participant - Yep.

Interviewer - Do you need to rest more?

Participant - Oh yeah, worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual, do you feel sleepy or drowsy?

Participant - Yeah.
Worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual. Do you have problems starting things?

Participant - Yeah.
No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse than usual. Do you lack energy?

Participant - (laughs) Worse than usual.

Interviewer - Worse than usual. Do you have less strength in your muscles?

Participant - Oh, no worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse than usual. Do you feel weak?

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse than usual. Do you have difficulties concentrating?

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse than usual. Do you make slips of the tongue when speaking?

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse than usual. Do you find it more difficult to find the right word?

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse than usual. And how is your memory?

Participant - No worse than usual.

Interviewer - No worse than usual. Lovely lovely. Right. The...The-my favourite thing about that survey in particular is "do you make slips of the tongue when speaking" for some reason the, the original survey is "do you make slips of the tongue when sleeping?"
That's not quite right.

Participant - That's not quite right yep.

Interviewer - Something about that's off.

Participant - Somewhere there, that's a typo.

Interviewer - Right. OK. So the next one, I'm just going to type up the scale, but this uses numbers and if I can spell things correctly, that would help. So it's uses a basic number scale.

Participant - Yep.

Interviewer - So it would just be like saying ah, 6 or whatever it is.

Participant - Yep, yep.
Yeah, yeah. So a standard Likert. OK.

Interviewer - Yes. Yeah, yeah. The Likert scale.

Participant - Yeah, up to, so top is 10 or 7.

Interviewer - Seven, this is one to seven with obviously 2-3 and five and six being intermediate values.

Participant - Nothing....To seven.
Yep, Yep. Gotcha. Cool.

Interviewer - OK. Happy happy. Right. This is in the last week as opposed to the last month.

Participant - Yep.

Interviewer - OK, so, during the past week I have found that my motivation is lower when I am fatigued.

Participant - Uh...6.

Interviewer - 6. Exercise brings on my fatigue.

Participant - (laughs) 7.

Interviewer - Seven, I am easily fatigued.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7, fatigue interferes with my physical functioning.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7, fatigue causes frequent problems for me.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - Seven. My fatigue prevents sustained physical functioning.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - 7, fatigue interferes with carrying out certain duties and responsibilities.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - Seven. If I would actually press the key, that would help. Fatigue is among my three most disabling symptoms.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - Seven and fatigue interferes with my work, family or social life.

Participant - 7.

Interviewer - Seven. Lovely. Lovely.
Just the one more, this is this is the quirky one. It also uses a slightly strange scale, so this uses 0 to 3, and it's about the chances of falling asleep.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - This, it doesn't use a specific time scale.

Participant - Yeah.
Yes.

Interviewer - It's more if this happened now, what would be your expectation? So there's the scale.

Participant - Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Interviewer - So there's the scale.

Participant - OK, cool. Yep.

Interviewer - OK, Zero to three.
So the first circumstance is sitting and reading.

Participant - 1.

Interviewer - One, watching TV.

Participant - 1.

Interviewer - One, sitting inactive in a public place, for example, a theatre or a meeting.

Participant - Zero.

Interviewer - Zero, as a passenger in a car for an hour without a brake.

Participant - 2.

Interviewer - 2.
Lying down to rest in the afternoon.

Participant - 3.

Interviewer - Three. Sitting and talking to someone.

Participant - Zero.

Interviewer - 0. Sitting quietly after lunch in brackets when you've had no alcohol.

Participant - 2.

Interviewer - Two, and in a car while stopped in traffic.

Participant - I hope you're not driving but three.

Interviewer - Three, it-this is what I mean. It doesn't specify. I hope you're the passenger, but...

Participant - Yes, let's assume that I am because I can't drive.

Interviewer - Yeah, let-let's assume that. Yeah. OK. So that is that done. So...and now it's the lovely big talky bit, OK.

Participant - Cool.

Interviewer - I...
OK. So, do you, just going to check in, do you need a break at all?

Participant - No, no, I'm good.

Interviewer - Perfect. So this big talky bit is 20 questions split into four sections. The 1st is about the conditions, the 2nd is about the devices, the third is about these two things interacting, and the 4th is at some speculative maguff.

Participant - Cool. Sounds good.

Interviewer - So question number one, what chronic- Oh, sorry. You can also remember something and loop back if you want.

Participant - Yep.

Interviewer - There's no obligation to answer the question specifically in the order. OK?

Participant - Yeah, cool. Yeah, perfect.

Interviewer - Good. Question number one, what chronic mobility conditions do you have?

Participant - I have functional neurological disorder. Specifically, I have a functional mobility disorder.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - I also have mild Vertigo, mild visual distortion which does impact on the mobility at times, you know, combined with that you know your vision is slightly wonky, your balance is slightly wonky, and you can't always make your legs work. Yes, all of that combines to mobility problems.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you describe to me the symptoms of these conditions that you experience?

Participant - Yeah. So FND is when you have a software fault in your brain and the signalling goes wrong, structurally, totally normal, signal fault, regular. So like a computer blue screening, my blue screening is that I shake and that I also look fairly parkinsonian in my walking and things like that so I get slower and slower and slower the more I walk. It also triggers the shakes, so that's not good as... so I use an electric wheelchair the vast majority of the time to get around and that includes getting around my bungalow which is about 15 steps from my bed to my loop sort of thing. But yeah, use the wheelchair all the time. Significant amounts of fatigue that go with that and with the fatigue as the brain, brain, fog. And then of course, you do get the anxiety and depression gremlins popping up occasionally.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities these conditions have prevented you being able to do?

Participant - Walking.

Interviewer - Nice and simple right to the point.

Participant - It's very simple. I-I do not walk. I pretty much, I-I can transfer to and from the chair. I can walk a very short distance, but I try not to because it aggravates everything. So I don't.
But that then impacts on everything else that you do. So, and the energy limitation means that you have to pace lots of energy. So not too many things of going outside and doing things too often together, pace what activities you're doing.
Work from home. Work mostly from beds.
Yeah, that's sort of thing.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. When is the earliest instance you can recall of your condition inhibiting your mobility?

Participant - 30th of July 1998. When I started shaking, I started shaking one day. Suddenly out of the blue.

Interviewer - OK, OK.

Participant - That's basically it. Brain went on the Fritz, then haven't, haven't walked normally and consistently since then, and it's gotten worse. So for the 1st 10 years or so of my condition I did not need a wheelchair and then it became, I became slower and slower and slower in my walking and it became more-more of an energy drain to do so. And so I got a wheelchair and I was initially a very part-time user.
And that has increased to now I'm a permanent wheelchair user.

Interviewer - OK, so that first instance, if you're comfortable doing so, can you describe to me the difference it made in, in the onset?

Participant - So I was working in the labs as a postdoctoral researcher...doing, I was working on a mouse model of of rheumatoid arthritis, and I started shaking and I couldn't stop shaking.
And it did affect my walking right from the get go in that I was shaking and shaking so fiercely that my walking was affected. I got hospitalised fairly quickly and they ran every single test and they all came up negative so it was FND...eventually. It took about six years to actually get that diagnosis.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK. Thank you very much. I'm going to read between the lines. I'm assuming with your descriptions of fatigue, is there some sort of extended exhaustion, some sort of PEM type behaviour?

Participant - Oh yeah, PEM is, yeah, definitely PEM and it's a really erratic PEM. It's not a "if I do too much one day it will be two days later and then I will crash the next day". I can crash immediately, I can crash the next day, I can crash the next week.
I do try and put in place what I call planned crash landings when I've done things that I know are going to be a bit much, but they, it rarely hits on those days even though I tried to plan it for all the days when I think it might hit and all the rest of it.
I basically pace as best I can, try as best I can, and then it's as variable as it can be.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much.

Participant - But you know, if I've overdone it, the EPM (PEM) can last for quite extended periods of times. So for example, I no longer lecture undergraduates because the last time I did that it took me 3 months to recover.

Interviewer - Yeah, PEM is not, not nice. Yeah. Thank you very much.

Participant - It's a bugger. No, it's a bugger. If you really crash it, it will take you months to recover. If I crash it minorly. It's a few days. If it's, you know, fairly standard that it's a week or two and then yeah, it's not uncommon that at least once a year I'll crash it fairly hard and takes me a while to really come back.

Interviewer - Thank you very much. I need to use that description of erratic actually that fits quite well.

Participant - Yeah, I mean, I know some people for whom they can always predict with clinical precision of it, "I'll do something too much on Wednesday. Fridays a wipe out definitely" and I'm kind of going "how lucky for you. I wish my symptoms was at least that predictable. I mean, it's a bugger it's a wipeout, but at least you can predict it!"

Interviewer - Yeah, yeah, I know exactly.

Participant - And also, although I can usually predict the things that will trigger it to be a crash, it sometimes just does it because it wants to.

Interviewer - Yeah.
Yeah. No. OK, thank you very much. Can you give me examples of brain fog inhibiting your activities? If brain fog inhibits this, please do say so.

Participant - Yeah.
It's actually been reasonably good by this afternoon. I've-I've seemed to have warmed up. I was struggling a bit this morning, so brain fog.
I have always been very bad with names. I'm increasingly bad with faces, so I-I-I'm almost face blind. So that's part of the brain fog.
I and then it also that travels over to other abstract concepts such as you know mod- names of models or authors or you know, being able to find the name for something. Yeah, but that that drops out fairly regularly.
And that's kind of the baseline stuff. And then if it's having a bad brain fog day, then I will struggle to string sentences together and stuff and it gets the point of I, I call it almost... It's almost a migraine level.
In that I don't get pain, but I get the impact on my cognition and I get to be I end up speaking very slowly and I really struggle to put find the words and it's a really weird one. It's kind of I know what I want to say. The, the breath, the mouth just can't say it so it can do that.
Also, when reading large chunks of text or writing larger chunks of text, I can, you know, send back a quick text message or quickly respond to an e-mail. But if you're wanting me to coordinate my diary, I get what I call diaritis and...things get put in the wrong time on the wrong date, so I turn up at the wrong time in the wrong place and that sort of thing. But then also then, like I say, reading or writing more complex screens of text, etcetera. Yeah, I try not to write when I'm badly brain fogged, because then I rewrite, read it on the next day when I've got more brain and then it's sort of what the f*** is that? I have no idea. It's totally all over the place. It doesn't make sense. It's not well structured, and English is obviously an optional language in my brain at that day, so I try not to do that anymore. But it's also when you're trying to critique a student's work or colleagues, yknow, grant application or whatever it is you're looking at, really hard to look at it and kind of make any sense of it. You know, you end up rereading sentences multiple times, and they still don't make any sense or you look at it and go, oh, it's all fine.
And knowing that done well, it isn't that, but you've got to go back and look at it again at another time to actually apply critical thinking and critique to it. So it's that sort of thing, really helpful in the academic post.

Interviewer - OK.
Very, very, very, very helpful.
Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of disruptions to your sleep schedule making your other symptoms worse?

Participant - (cackles) Yeah.
Yeah. Sleep schedule. That's novel novelty. I described my sleep as I sleep like a baby.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - A really, really young one. So I get 2 hour blocks of sleep if I'm doing well, 4 hours if I'm doing exceptionally well, and I don't sleep more than four hours at a time and then-

Interviewer - So...
So sorry, just to just to interject, you sleep like a... teams has dropped out for a moment.

Participant - Baby.

Interviewer - A what sorry?

Participant - Like a baby.

Interviewer - Like a baby, OK, yes.

Participant - But a real one, not, not the oh sleeps like a baby. They're totally undisturbable, and all the rest of it. No. No wakes up every two to four hours like a baby will wake up at the slightest external noise will you know?

Interviewer - Mm-hmm.

Participant - Yeah, badly add menopause into this sort of symptoms. And yes, so hot flushes and palpitations and occasional panic attacks waking up into a panic attack has been a recent thing that I've done a bit of as well. That's fun.
Not. Highly recommend not doing that one. It's like somebody set off a fire alarm. Basically, you wake up in a panic attack and it's like, hey, what's going on? Oh, f***. It's just that right, deep breathing and buggery, it's a pest.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - Umm.
…Does poor sleep disrupt, of course. Makes it even worse. But my poor sleep is normal. It can be even poorer, but the baseline is it f****** sucks. So yeah, but I can also then have periods where I have to sleep...
18-20 hours in a day, so I sleep and I eat and that's all I do. But they're not 20 hour blocks. They're two to four hours. Wake up, do a little, sleep, wake up, do a little, sleep.
So yeah, it's, it's sucky. I'm addicted to audiobooks because they're the only thing that keep my brain from going totally crazy whilst I'm trying to sleep.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. So in terms of your sleep schedule, making your other symptoms worse, it's difficult to describe because the disruption to the sleep schedule is there all of the time.

Participant - Yeah.
It's all the ways there, has been right since the beginning of the FND is that the sleep has just always been absolutely f*****.

Interviewer - OK.
Yeah. OK, lovely. Thank you very much. So that's the end of the first section.

Participant - Oooh!

Interviewer - So the second section now focuses on devices.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - So what device or application do you currently use for these conditions and when did you start using it or them?

Participant - I have the visible tracker and app and I've been using it oh about a year and a half, something like that.

Interviewer - OK. Have you had anything previous to that?

Participant - Nah.

Interviewer - OK.
How do you use this...this application?

Participant - It's been quite useful in identifying how much energy goes into a typical activity, so it-it has what it calls pace points and you have a set...budget of pace points per day. Can't remember what it gave me, but because all of my days are so variable, I just disregarded it and get to gave myself 20 and that seems to be about the right level for if you're not going to totally blast yourself out of the water, 20 is around...right for my pace point, I think it gave me less and it was sort of no, that's that's just silly. I won't-I won't even manage to do anything if I was working on 12 pace points or something. I think it was. So it's sort of nah. So I overrode and sort of gave myself 20 and that seems to work reasonably well, it's helpful to know that a shower is around 1 pace point. It's helpful to know that an hour on a team's meeting is 1.2 pace points. But if you want to have that very same meeting face to face on-on campus, then it will be 3.6 pace points and it's really helpful to be able to tell my colleagues that seeing you face to face is three times the energy expenditure...

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - ...and therefore, yes, that explains why I don't do it that much and all the rest of it. It also helps me identify when the system is crashing badly and and I-it's flipping. So I had an experience this summer when I had a bit of a bad crash whereby like I say, my average hour is usually about 1.2 pace points when I'm working and stuff.
I actually was, you know, really struggling with energy, really not having restful rest. And I looked at the pace points for a period when I was just lying down and listening to an audio book. I was awake, but I was lying down flat.
And that was over 3 points. I think it was 3.2 pace points. My system had just gone, *bink!* and just decided that instead of resting, we'll just go crazy and it's sort of a, oh, right. f*** it. The system's gone crazy. I now have to totally stop. And that was the point at which I took a week sick leave and rested fiercely so that I reprogrammed it to not go crazy when you're trying to rest.

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - So it was helpful to be able to identify that and helpful to be able to kind of go, right, that's it. Stop. I didn't know I had to, but it was a... Yeah. f*** it. If resting is actually taking more energy than the teams meeting you had beforehand, then the system is absolutely screwed and you have to reset it by fiercely resting at it and trying to get it to reset. So it's been useful in that way. I will admit that I am really averse to things that ping at me and and stuff like that I hate e-mail notifications and all the rest of it, so I do not have any of the notifications that you can have on it set up so you know it can ping at you. If you will get into your overexertion zone and all the rest of it. I don't do that because that would drive me nuts.
And often I don't have a choice when I'm doing those things anyway. I'm on a train. I've got to get off it. I've got to get going. I've got, you know, work to do, etcetera. So it's kind of, it's trying to pace within that, but also within the pragmatism of, well, yeah, I'm lucky. I don't have a system that...completely crashes all the time and I have very few pace points in a day to manage. I have enough that I've got some leeway and I can keep doing my job so I get on and do the job, but it does help me, you know...
I look at it erratically through the day and it helps me keep track of am I doing OK and stuff, but equally...
The days that I'm fully crashed, of course I'm using far, far less pace points because I'm just asleep, but that's not actually reflective of the fact that I, do I have energy no, because effectively that day is a 5 pace point day. So you know, it's kind of so it's, it's-it like I say, it's actually quite helpful in terms of explaining to colleagues what the energy limitations are. So you know, I talk about spoon theory with them and stuff and I took and I sort of explained that, oh, and I've got this tracker and it shows me my spoon allocation etcetera.
And what I'm using them on and by the way, being here with you is a very high activity thing, or doing that interview was really quite high stress and so I recognise that and that sort of thing. So it's it's useful in that way. But I will admit...that I am not...I-I don't use it to sort of go "Right that's it. I've used my pace points for the day. I stop now." I usually don't have that choice, or at least not realistically. So I just try and make sure that my days are generally in the 20 zone.
And it also flags to me if a day has been particularly hard. So I had the most horrendous journey back from Coventry the other day. And yeah, the-the pace points went into the 40s and it's sort of OK, right? I'm really glad I've got tomorrow marked as a, you know, planned crash landing.
But yeah, let's-let's keep it gentle since then. And that's part of the reason why you're "how have you been in the last month" survey was coming up with so many. Oh, yeah, that that's the maximum because that's what I-I've crashed. I've crashed myself a bit this month because... of awful train journeys, et cetera, getting to and from Coventry so...

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - But yeah, not a lot of choice about that. You know, it's kind of either you get home when you don't get home, you know, so.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. You've answered the next two questions in that which was when and how frequently, so lovely, lovely.

Participant - Yay.

Interviewer - I will just ask because I know with visible there's several different levels of subscriptions and whatnot.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - What, what level are you at and do you have the device in addition to the application?

Participant - So I have the device that, the tracker on the arm. I have the version one version of that so it doesn't do night time tracking and things like that and I have I think the basic version of the, of the app etcetera.
Like I say, I find it useful, but I-I-I also know my...
OCD tendencies to would, would go, it would feed those gremlins a little too well, and I would get a bit too, you know, stuck on "Oh my God, it's taking me this many points" so no, I don't want to be doing that. I just need to get on with my life. It helps me review what I've done.
It helps me plan a bit, but I refuse to use it too much to track every minute as it were.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. So that's the end of Section 2. So the third section of four set of four, can you give me examples of activities that caused you a decision to use the device?

Participant - Sorry, what? Say again, I didn't understand that.

Interviewer - Can you? I can reword it if you like?

Participant - Yeah, please.

Interviewer - Oh, now I've got to think about rewording it. Can you describe to me something that...made you decide to go and get a device.

Participant - Oh, right. Yeah, OK. It was case of, you know, like I say, dealing with a very variable energy levels and very variable responses to fatiguing activities.
I thought that data might help me track that a bit more. It kind of does a bit, but it also highlights that, yeah, some of that stuff is really quite variable so (laughs).

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of times the device alerted you to overexertion? Now, I know you don't use the notifications. You've said that already.

Participant - Yeah, yeah.

Interviewer - This would in, with your respect, this would be more, in retrospect.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - Can you give me examples of times when you've checked it and gone afterwards "Oh well, that was a lot."

Participant - Yeah, I mean, like I say, it allows you to tag zones and find out how many pace points you used on a certain activity. So it's been useful for me to know that like I say, an MS Teams meetings is usually 1.2 pace points per hour.
It's useful to know that if I was to do that face to face, that's three times the amount. It's useful to know that if I'm travelling on the bus, it's, you know, I'm pushing it towards heading up towards 2 pace points an hour in that sort of zone. Obviously I'm not necessarily travelling for that long, but you know it's a high activity, high exertion activity. So it helps me identify the things that are more high exertion. It helps me identify when my system has gone crazy. Like when I say over the summer where I had overexerted myself and...rest was not restful anymore and it absolutely correlated with that that it identified that yeah, when I was lying down and resting, it was not restful and the base pointing did highlight that that was yes, that that was a true....you know that was scientifically provable as well as what it felt like to me. So yeah, because I mean, part of FND is that effectively part of it is that the feedback loops have gone crazy and that the brain is not interpreting the input from the systems, whatever they are, correctly, so it's quite helpful to have an objective observer on that and to double check in as to what's going on and stuff. So yeah, it's kind of helpful to know what activities or higher-higher load, what-what roughly they usually take. So you know it's knowing that...a shower is at least a whole pace point, and it's kind of yeah, if it's a day when you're looking at and going, there's a lot going on and I'm already tired, OK? It's wet wipes today rather than having a shower. And it allows you to make those sorts of decisions and be a bit more sensible about...
you know, yeah, I love my showers, but yeah, it's high temperatures, you've got always got problems with all of your automated processes. Let's, let's jump that today.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK, perfect. So it's used more as a as a confirmation...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - ...and like you said, like an impartial observer than...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - ...a than a kind of something that taps you on the shoulder and tells you to stop instead.

Participant - Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I couldn't bear that.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK, lovely. Thank you very much. This is in particular one of the questions that tends to not apply to about 50% of people. So if this doesn't apply to you, that's completely fine. Can you give me examples of activities you started after using the device?

Participant - Nope, no.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of regular activities you stopped participating in as a result of using the device?

Participant - Like I say, it really did highlight that showers were quite high pace points and therefore I probably shower less now than I used to. And I, you know, I make a choice to use fresh wipes instead.
It has allowed me to explain to my colleagues why I don't do the face to face meetings.
But I didn't do them anyway. It just helps me explain it a bit easier. So yeah. So it hasn't, per se stopped, but yeah.
No, I think more that it's the pacing. So I do similar things, but I just make sure I'm pacing the energy and stuff.

Interviewer - So it's-it's less about stopping things and more about timing them to when you have the points to do it.

Participant - Planning, yeah.
Yeah, that's it.

Interviewer - OK, lovely. Lovely. Thank you. Can you give me examples of activities you might have started were you not using the device?

Participant - Like I say, I think that time when I was crashing in the summer, I might have kept going a bit longer had I not spotted that my my rest was not restful and that that really was true and it's sort of, oh, f***, that's the system got totally wonky. Let's stop.
Umm.
That's really about it.

Interviewer - OK. Obviously you've mentioned a few things that I think will be an answer to this question. So if you feel that way, just refer back to what you've said before. Can you give me examples of events that demonstrate your decision to choose this device?

Participant - Yeah.
Yeah. I mean it, like I say, it's been that usefulness of working out that there's about a 20 pace point budget for the day and then tracking roughly how many pace points it takes to do given activities.
And so on. And so that I know how I schedule the day, when I know that I'm going to have to schedule some rests in and things like that and...
Yeah, that that's really it. It's the scheduling.

Interviewer - OK, I'm going to add my own little question in here because I have a feeling this is quite relevant. Does things like the brain fog and the cognitive symptoms mean that coming up with specific examples or remembering specific events is quite difficult and instead they kind of blend into this general memory soup?

Participant - No, it like I say, it's reasonable this afternoon, so we're OK on remembering exact examples. It's just, yeah, like I say, I'm probably a relatively poor user of it, so I don't...
I don't don't rely on it a huge amount, but it is a useful quick look at and track.
Also, it's not that good at spotting my trends because it does this thing of "every day as a 20 pace point day" and crash days are 5 pace point days, so it doesn't do that variation which is actually would be more useful so it sometimes thinks, "oh, you're having a great day" when I'm kind of going "no, that's because I just didn't do anything." And so that's actually isn't a good day. So it's, yeah, it's it. Although it's good in that it doesn't promote you to do activity like some activity trackers do that, you know they're giving you messages of "oh do more etcetera." And this is good in that in terms of the messaging it gives you is around pacing yourself and doing planning and being cautious etcetera. So those are more helpful messages.
Yeah, it's-it's kind of... It's still only a computer, it's still only tracking my heart rate and heart rate variability. That's pretty much all it's tracking plus my symptom reporting which is erratic as in my own regularness of doing that.
So yeah, it's...
It it can only do what it can do. You know, in terms of the limits of its algorithm, etcetera. So...

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. 4th and final section, this is just three questions. Doesn't have to be based in current products. You can get imaginative if you want. What form would your ideal device or application take?

Participant - It would be more discreet, at the moment, that's still fairly visible when I'm wearing short sleeved things. I know that they've got like I say, so the new version can be worn on the wrist so it looks a bit more like watch and things like that, but I think...
Yeah, small and more discreet is definitely good. I think something that could track probably more variables, so O2 saturation, blood sugars possibly, and definitely tracking sleep.
I am considering getting the next version on so that I can actually have it that it tracks sleep and stuff like that. The battery life on version one is fairly crappy, pretty much does one day, and then you have to charge it whereas the new one has apparently a week or two battery life and it charges within an hour. So a lot more useful. So yeah, that's a really positive thing. And I think that needs to continue improving basically.
But yeah, I think having more variables would be helpful to-to so you actually got a more comprehensive, holistic view of how the body was doing. Because I absolutely know that my blood sugar levels are definitely absolutely critical to whether I can do stuff or not. I know that at times... I haven't managed to catch COVID as far as I know, probably have just asymptomatically, but I do know that if I get anything that is respiratory that my breathlessness can kick in quite seriously and that really does fatigue me a lot.
Like, say, tracking sleep and sleep quality so that it actually did track whether or not you were in deep sleep or not. And that sort of thing again would likely be helpful. And then again like I say, having a way of sort of saying because the app has sort of crashed, no crash, yes, no, you know, are you all, are you not having a day?
It's kind of, yeah, there needs to be a bit more nuance in that because it isn't just am I crushed or not. And for it to effectively reset the number of pace points for a day where you go, I was just resting that day and that's all I could do. That was, there was nothing else I could do. So yeah, I only used 5 pace points that day, but that was all that was available to me. In other words, it's 100% of what was available to me. Not that I only used 1/4 of my pace points that day, and it views it as the second at the moment, and it's when it's calculating things.

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - Umm.
Yeah. So it's that sort of thing. And I think if you were to make it that it was the most useful. It would also be linking in with things like medication adherence, etcetera, so that it would prompt you to take your meds, that sort of thing because obviously that really helps.
And if it's all on one device and you're not having to faff with multiple reminders, ping, you know things going off etcetera. And of course, medication adherence is it's one of my research areas. So it's one thing that one of the things I'm passionate about is that that can make a massive difference to people's quality of life, and I think if you're doing things that are around fatigue management, medication adherence, positive messaging, you know things that promote well-being like I say, I like the fact that the visible app is very much focusing on pacing and cautious energy use and that sort of thing, and that's really helpful. So it's that sort of mindset. I like the fact that the Visible guys are doing some research with the, you know, the data sets that they get.
Again, that I think is really critical that this is, you know, this is a free data set. It should be being researched on, you know, an anonymized date, you know, mega data set of everybody's stuff. But I think they need to be asking more questions. They have one monthly...effectively ADL question and it's kind of it's it's not detailed enough, it's not relevant, you know, and it again, it's the things of...
Being able to sort of say...
Because they do things like, you know, "you're far less mobile than the average person", and you kind of go. "Yeah, I use a f****** wheelchair. Guess what? No s***, Sherlock." So that's actually not a helpful output to sort of, say, "are you far less mobile than you usually are?" That's an output that's useful to you.

Interviewer - Yeah.
Sorry, I'm losing you a second. Bear with me. Come on, teams.
There we go. Right. Are we back?

Participant - Cool.
Are you? Can you hear me?

Interviewer - There's a little bit of interference, I'm just not sure if the recording- and are we back. Hello.

Participant - Yeah. Hi, can you hear me?

Interviewer - Oh OK, I can just about make you out, but I just know the recording won't pick it up properly.

Participant - Should I turn off my camera and see if that helps a bit?

Interviewer - Bear with me. I'll just have a look into if it's me or...

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - The joys of working from home.

Participant - Oh yes.

Interviewer - Oh, OK. Hello. Oh, OK. Turn the camera off. Has that helped?

Participant - Oh yeah, yeah. I've turned the my camera off. Is that helpful?

Interviewer - Yes, it is right. I'll do, I'll do the same as well just in case.

Participant - Yeah, yeah, yes, indeed. Yes, I've got lovely men resurfacing all of our footpaths outside, so every once in a while they seem to vibrate the Internet lines a little heavily and we then have Internet connection problems. So it might be me.

Interviewer - Oh lovely.
How...how generous of them. So I-I lost you at about the point that you said it was telling you you were less mobile and well, yes, obviously.

Participant - I think...
Yeah. So you really need to have it that it's, it's not a problem as it were for the mega anonymized data sets. For it to say, yeah, you're less mobile than the average member of the population, but what you need as an individual is, is this a deterioration for you over time? And what does that really mean? And it's not just the what can you do? It's the impact aspect of it, you know. Are you still able to work full time? Are-are you still able to feel on top of your work that you're doing and whatever else it is, you know those sorts of things so you can track things, and so you can explain things because like I say, we're within awkward times in terms of gaining benefits and things like this that this sort of data could be useful for you to prove the impacts and stuff and that you are able to more easily download that data, use that data for yourself. Not that it can ever be shared with the Department of Total obscurity etcetera, it's-it's sort of no, we're not sharing it with those b*******, but that it can be useful to you to explain to others or to justify that. Yeah. Actually I can show you my track of energy levels over time and you can see it's still going down or it's still bizarrely low or whatever it is.

Interviewer - OK, I have a feeling you have in quite a lot of detail answered the next two questions, but I'll ask you them anyway in case there's anything else.

Participant - Cool.
Yeah.

Interviewer - What functions would you remove?

Participant - No, I don't think there's anything I'd remove because you can opt in and out of them and I can certainly see that there might be times when I would want it to prompt me about overexertion and things like that if I was really struggling or something. So no, I'm-I'm happy. I think it is that it has flexibility.
So you can pop in and out of various things, so yeah.

Interviewer - OK. So that's, so there's no mandatory functions like you would have with say, Fitbits and Garmin trackers and Samsung gears and everything where there are options with those devices that you can't turn off.

Participant - No, I mean this one, it will track your heart rate and heart rate variability and if that's all you do and you just stick it on on the morning and you do nothing, everything else is optional, you can do a morning check in, you can do an evening check in, you can, you can set it up that it alerts you to overexertion and things like this, but all of those are entirely optional.

Interviewer - OK. That's, that's really good actually.

Participant - It is.

Interviewer - OK, final question, what functions would you add? Obviously I think you've talked about this...in in detail already, but if there's anything else then feel free to add.

Participant - Yeah.
I think it'd be really positive if you could record for good days.
You know, I mean, I know that that a lot of this is around managing performance against the bad days, but if you don't track what it was, that also led up to you having a particularly good day, then you might not know be able to notice that and repeat that. So I think being able to sort of do a-a peak day, a good day etcetera.
It's-it's important.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much.

Participant - I'm all for, all for my appreciative inquiry.

Interviewer - Yeah. No, that, that sounds like a really good feature actually. I don't think anyone's mentioned that up to this point. It's always focus on the bad and not, not the good, isn't it?

Participant - Yeah. And, and I mean evolutionary it, it makes sense. We are absolutely, we're set up neurologically to focus on the disasters because you can't repeat those again and survive. But actually it's incredibly important psychologically that you understand, A) that you recognise, that you had a good day, but also that you can start planning for how you make those happen more often, how you plan for having successful times. And I think particularly in the context of having long term conditions that are energy limiting, focusing solely on the prevent it being a bad day can actually be quite bad and that's why I don't have things like the, the overexertion trackers and things like this. Because I'm kind of going. Yeah, I'm having fun. Usually when I'm doing that.

Interviewer - Yeah. Yeah. OK. Yeah. No, that that makes sense. It's-it's quite negative reinforcing usually.

Participant - Yeah.
That's it. That's it. And I think it's it would be cool if there was a "OK, let me track how am I managing to get the good days" and also tracking that those aren't triggering and particularly such bad days and things like this when you have really overdone it and stuff.
But like I say, I think it's important that you do track the good stuff as well.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK, that that that's a really good, given us a really good suggestion. Thank you very much.

Participant - Like I say, as a researcher I I do like !appreciative inquiry! it's called as a model. It's-it's a really useful one to flip the agenda and sort of go "Yeah, we know how to do it disastrously badly. Does anybody know how to do this well?"

Interviewer - Yes, exactly.

Participant - And it's kind of, yeah, you know, and I work a lot within healthcare research and things like this. And I'm constantly saying "so what's the team that does it really well, who's the nurse that really is brilliant? Who's the physio that you'd refer your friends to? Right. I want to talk to them. I want to find out how they're doing it, in the midst of a NHS that is clearly breaking down. How are they still being brilliant?"

Interviewer - Yeah.
Yeah. No, exactly.

Participant - Because we don't learn from that and we really should. So that's why I sort of do the we should be asking about the good stuff as well.

Interviewer - No, that's, that's a wonderful approach and I think it's it's really good and really demonstrative of the situation that a lot of people in our sort of situations develop outlooks like this because bluntly it's very difficult to exist if you don't.

Participant - Oh, I've lost you.

Interviewer - Oh, am I back. Hello.

Participant - You're back now you're back.

Interviewer - Yeah. Good, good. I wonder if me closing the velux window because it started raining, decided to disturb my laptop. That would be very Microsoft.

Participant - It would be very Microsoft. Yeah. No, I mean it's, it's that thing of joy as an act of rebellion.

Interviewer - Yes. Yeah. No, exactly. I-I think it's-it's really important to reflect that a lot of the people in our situations develop this outlook because bluntly it's very difficult to exist if you don't.

Participant - Yeah.
Yeah.

Interviewer - So yeah, it's, it's wonderful to have that described by a participant in a more formal, researchy way, I suppose.

Participant - Yeah, yeah.

Interviewer - So yeah, thank you very much for that. I'm going to go do a quick overview of all of the sections just in case there's anything you are reminded over anything you want to add.

Participant - No worries at all.
Yep.

Interviewer - So section one was about your condition specifically.
So what chronic conditions you have the symptoms and how they relate to the impact on your life.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - Section number 2 was about the device, when you started using it and how you use it. Section 3 was about the device-hmm... the use of the device and its impact on your life.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - So decisions that you've made and things that you've changed and things that it's helped with.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - And then Section 4 was the speculative ideal device section.

Participant - Yup. All sounds cool. Yep.

Interviewer - OK, nothing to add?

Participant - No, no, I think that covers all of it. So I hope that's useful to you.

Interviewer - Wonderful. Thank you very much. I'll stop recording a second.