Interviewer - All right. OK. So do you need any breaks or anything?

Participant - No.

Interviewer - OK, good good. So this is 20 questions split into four different sections. The first one focuses on your conditions. The second one focuses on the devices or applications that you use. The third one, is focused on these things interacting and the 4th one right at the end is just a little speculative couple of questions, OK?

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So question number one, what chronic mobility conditions do you have?

Participant - OK, fibromyalgia.
Umm.
So chronic fatigue syndrome, which is kind of a symptom of POTS, which is postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome.

Interviewer - OK. What was that first one, sorry.

Participant - Fibromyalgia.

Interviewer - Fibromyalgia. OK. Thank you very much. Can you describe to me the symptoms of these conditions that you experience?

Participant - OK, so fibromyalgia is...Like...Chronic pain, um throughout the body.

Interviewer - Mm-hmm.

Participant - I would say.
Chronic fatigue is exactly what it sounds like. I don't know how to describe it otherwise. I guess with no, errr, like fatigue with no direct...obvious cause.
And then POTS is a syndrome that affects different parts of my autonomic nervous system, but...one of the...parts of the syndrome is essentially not being able to exercise without getting absolutely exhausted, and my heart rate going really high.

Interviewer - OK.
Forgive me if I'm wrong, but off of memory of other participants who have POTS...

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - ...that's heart rate instability usually going incredibly high when doing simple things and can be accompanied by dizziness.

Participant - Yes, that's correct.

Interviewer - OK.
Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities these conditions have prevented you from being able to do?

Participant - Umm.
Running.
Honestly, working out in general.
I guess not directly, but driving just because I don't feel comfortable getting behind the wheel of a car if I am concerned, I may like...pass out or start feeling bad, yeah.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - And yeah.

Interviewer - OK.
So anything with any component of-of...significant exercise, then, when you said working out in general, so that's most or all sports and that kind of thing, yeah.

Participant - Yes.
Yes.

Interviewer - OK. When is the earliest instance you can recall of your conditions inhibiting your mobility?

Participant - 13 years ago.

Interviewer - So 2012?

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - OK, thank you. I'm going to read between the lines, extended exhaustion and post exertional malaise. Is that relevant to you?

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - Yes. Can you give me examples of extended exhaustion after an activity please?

Participant - Umm.
Taking a shower standing up for, say 15 minutes and then needing to lie down for half an hour afterwards.

Interviewer - OK. So it's a lot of just normal daily...activities needed to look after basic needs.

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - OK. Do you suffer with the cognitive symptoms as well? Things like brain fog and word loss.

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - Can you give me examples of brain fog inhibiting your activities please?

Participant - Umm.
Oh, I-I went grocery shopping and with brain fog and bought chicken nuggets. Despite being a vegetarian of...like 7 years because I misread it and I thought that they were vegan chicken nuggets.

Interviewer - Right. OK. I've-I've not heard that one before. That's really interesting.
Yeah. Yeah. No one's ever mentioned anything to do with packaging and, and how clear or not, that kind of thing can be.

Participant - Yeah, I've-I've... I think that one was surprising because it has never happened to me before. But it is. Yeah. Reading things and, like, misreading things is not uncommon with brain fog.

Interviewer - Yeah.
Can you give me examples of disruptions to your sleep schedule making your other symptoms worse?

Participant - Umm.
Just.
I guess insomnia is that...

Interviewer - Umm...

Participant - ...descriptive enough or?

Interviewer - So...
If you have insomnia, then describing the insomnia would.
Be part of it, but then explaining how that can make the rest of, can affect the rest of your symptoms. And if they do in in what way it affects the rest of your symptoms. So I know for example with my...ADHD, If I hyper focus late at night, I might be up until 3:00 or 4:00 AM without realising it and then I have 4, 3-4 hours to sleep and I know that the next day...all of all of my movement will be inhibited because everything will feel like it's made of lead and my lungs won't be working properly and I will have horrible brain fog and all of this. So if you can, that kind of description on how a lack of sleep would then affect your other symptoms and conditions.

Participant - OK, so I sometimes have trouble falling asleep if I am in more pain or if I am feeling like my...blood pressure is too low or too high, or my heart rate is too low or too high, so it can take like hours to fall asleep and then I will need...to function the following day without as much sleep as I typically have, and it generally...makes it, like the fatigue after whatever activities I've done, makes it worse than like the normal amount of fatigue that I would feel.

Interviewer - So it just generally exacerbates everything fatigue related.

Participant - Yes.
Yes.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. So that's the end of the first section. So the next section is focusing on devices and applications and trackers and all of that.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So what device or application do you currently use for these conditions and when did you start using it or them?

Participant - I have a smart watch. I don't know. Do you want like the brand or?

Interviewer - If you can, if you can specify yes, but it's not necessary per say.

Participant - Yeah, it's called Withings, Scan Watch, I think is what it's called. And gosh, when did I, I think a year...ago?

Interviewer - OK.
Ohh I think I've found it. I've not heard of this one before.

Participant - Hmm.

Interviewer - Oh, OK, so it looks like an analogue wristwatch.

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - Oh.
Wow, OK, I've not seen anything...look that normal before.

Participant - Yeah, that's part of the reason why I got it. I also wanted, like continuous heart rate tracking. So because my heart rate can fluctuate a lot, I...and other like fitness watches on the market will have a general like-like an average heart rate over a period of time. And I-I wanted it to just like see the...fluctuations exactly kind of...

Interviewer - If I'm correct with...with pots, your heart rate can fluctuate to abnormal and then back to normal again within a minute. And most devices measure on a minute or by several minute basis so...

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - ...if I'm correct in your decision making, the, you needed something more frequent than that, because otherwise it will completely miss pots symptoms, correct?

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK.
Do you-? Yeah. Excuse me. Have you used anything previously? Any other previous tools?

Participant - I, yes, I don't know how to describe it, but it was like a strap that goes around your chest to measure your heart rate.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - And then you can. I don't even remember how it worked because it was literal years ago, but it was not something that I could wear comfortably regularly.

Interviewer - OK. Then there's no-no memory of any possibility of brand because as you said it was years ago, correct.

Participant - Correct.

Interviewer - OK.
How do you use the, the wristwatch?

Participant - So because it tracks my heart rate, I can use it to like see trends over time. So ideally...my heart rate...will like not be at such an elevated level in like at rest. So like when I'm sleeping or sitting down or something so...right now I am attempting this like heart rate training protocol that's recommended for people with pots and it is,
it's kind of like hit training like the high intensity interval training. So yes, I that's why I got the watch.

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - Like for those purposes.
And then I also...
I don't know how accurate the, the sleep tracking is, but it is kind of just interesting to see.
Like how long I slept and average heart rate during sleep. And you know, whatever.

Interviewer - OK, so it's got the full sleep tracking in addition to the, the heart rate stuff.

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. So I'm assuming that you wear this all the time almost all the time.

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK. When do you check the-the device?

Participant - Um.
It kind of depends like what I, like why I'm checking it I guess...

Interviewer - Hmm.

Participant - ...if I suspect that my heart rate is really high, I will check it...like...several times a day. Sorry. What was the question?

Interviewer - So I mean, the original question is when do you use the device? But obviously wear it all the time, so I've changed it slightly to be when do you check the device, so when are you looking at the-the data it's recording?

Participant - Yes.
Yes. So I would say that I-I check it when I'm feeling like my heart rate is higher than it should be and then...I check the...like the app for sleep tracking or like step count and everything...like once at the end of the day, usually.

Interviewer - OK, so the only...guaranteed check is at the end of the day, but then you, you check it also if you're if you're feeling like you were experiencing symptoms.

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much.
OK, so that's the end of Section 2.
Section 3. Can you give me examples of activities that caused your decision to use this device?

Participant - Umm.
Example activities.
I guess...
Like...
Daily activities that would make me feel really exhausted.
And...
They shouldn't have made me feel exhausted.
So I...
I don't know. Like...
It-it-it offers some sort of...
Validation for the...
Symptoms that I'm experiencing that...
Oh gosh, I don't know how to wear this.
Yeah, it...

Interviewer - It's no problem. Take your time.

Participant - Yeah, it...
It's...
Yeah, I examples...
Oh, for example, if I walk for 5 minutes and I can, I'm feeling really exhausted and sweaty and overheated and...just not feeling well, I can check my heart rate...after doing that walk, and if it is high, which it often is very high, then I feel slightly less like...crazy.

Interviewer - So it's...
Less about specific activities and more around confirming your feelings when going through the day-to-day activities.

Participant - Yes, I-I would say so. And then as I mentioned before, I did initially get it with the purpose of being able to track my heart rate in order to keep it within certain...zones for a certain amount of time when doing like cardio.

Interviewer - OK. Do you do cardio anymore?

Participant - I haven't...I haven't been consistent with it, no.

Interviewer - OK.
Can you give me examples of times the device has alerted you to overexertion?

Participant - Hmm.
I...
I honestly don't think it has alerted me with like...
A formal notification or anything.

Interviewer - OK, to slightly change the definition of alerted, I suppose in retrospect has it...have you got examples when you've got to the end of the day and realise that you've overextended?

Participant - Oh yes, definitely. At the end of the day, I will look at the average heart rate and there is a little graph that it shows me.
So I can see like...
Oh, at 2:00 PM, my heart rate got really high and I think back and remember. "Oh, yes, I was, I don't know, walking at that point". So it, I guess it, alerts me when I'm looking back kind of.

Interviewer - Yeah. In this retrospect kind of way.

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of activities you started after using the device?

Participant - Started.
Umm.
Uh.
Uh.

Interviewer - If there are none, then just say that there are none.

Participant - Yeah, none.

Interviewer - OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of regular activities you stopped participating in as a result of using the device?

Participant - No.

Interviewer - So there's nothing that you were doing and then you started using the device and it told you you were overextending when you did that certain activity?

Participant - Not, not really? I guess I...I can tell when I'm overexerting myself as a result of using the device, but I it hasn't actually stopped me from overexerting myself.

Interviewer - OK, no problem at all.
Can you give me examples of activities you might have started were you not using the device?

Participant - I...
Activities that I would have started if I weren't using it?

Interviewer - If you'd like me to...If you'd like me to reword questions, just, just say so.

Participant - Ah.

Interviewer - So things you might have tried to start to do if you didn't have the information that the device was supplying you.

Participant - I can't think of...
Specific...
Activities I've...
Maybe I would have started jogging with my friends...
Out of like a sense of...
It's not really peer pressure, but like wanting to join in on group activities such as like a running club, but I...

Interviewer - Mm-hmm.

Participant - ...Ha-... I Don't I-I didn't join that.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK. Thank you very much. Can you give me examples of events that demonstrate your decision to choose this device?

Participant - I'm not sure I understand the question.

Interviewer - So can you give me things that have happened that have...that tell you the using the device was the right decision.

Participant - Oh yeah...
Pretty much anytime I am...
Noticing that my heart rate is...
Abnormally high and...
I...
Just the fact that I like can know about those events...
In a...
Without needing to...
Like do anything additional if that makes sense.

Interviewer - Yeah.

Participant - Because before I would often I had um, a, I still have it, but it's a like a...cuff that goes around my wrist and it would measure my blood pressure and heart rate and so typically that would be the only time I would know what my heart rate was. And it obviously is only measuring it at that...exact point in time, whereas with the watch I can...
Look at trends in my heart rate...
Yeah.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK, perfect. Thank you very much. So it-it performs the function of that cuff, but all of the time.

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - Yeah. OK. So that is Section 3 done. So just Section 4, just three final questions. These are speculative. You don't need to be grounded in what is currently available or anything like that. You can get imaginative if you want.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - What form would your ideal device or application take?

Participant - Umm...
Hmm.
I guess...
Potentially less visually...
Obvious? IE...
The...
Smaller..
I don't know ring or something.

Interviewer - OK, so something less intrusive than something that goes around the entire wrist.

Participant - Yeah.

Interviewer - OK, what functions would you remove?

Participant - Oh.
I mean, I don't think I would necessarily remove anything.

Interviewer - OK.

Participant - Maybe...
Potentially the like number of calories like estimated calories burned, but that's just more of like a personal thing.

Interviewer - Yeah. Oh, I didn't realise that. Scan watch measures respiratory rate?

Participant - Yes.

Interviewer - Oh.
Does that measure that all of the time, or is it just an activated...
something you-you activate for a short amount of time?

Participant - Yeah, you have to activate it.

Interviewer - OK.
Right. Sorry. I was just having a flick through the website during because I don't think I've ever heard of these devices before. What functions would you add?

Participant - Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm.
Hmm.
And I can't think of anything.

Interviewer - So there's nothing with your symptoms that you feel you're assessing on your own and that you would like a device to do it all?

Participant - Oh, I guess I don't know if it would be like possible, but it would be nice if it could record blood pressure as well.

Interviewer - OK. Anything else?

Participant - No.

Interviewer - OK, lovely. So I'll give you a, a quick rundown of each section, just in case there's anything you're reminded of all that you want to add on.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - So section one was about your condition, your conditions, the symptoms that you experience and how they affect you.

Participant - Mm-hmm.

Interviewer - Section 2 was around the device, how you use it, previous devices, how frequently you use them and that kind of thing. Section 3 was around your symptoms and your device interacting during activities like overexertion and changes that you've made as a result of using the device.
And Section 4 was the little speculative bit we just did.

Participant - OK.

Interviewer - OK. Is there anything you'd like to add to the, the recording at all?

Participant - No.

Interviewer - OK, perfect. I'll stop that now.